
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74556 ***





                    ONE THOUSAND BOOKS FOR CHILDREN


                              COMPILED BY

                          PENRHYN W. COUSSENS

  Editor and Compiler of “Poems Children Love,” and “A Child’s Book of
                                Stories”

[Illustration: [Logo]]

                                CHICAGO
                          A. C. McCLURG & CO.
                                  1911




                               COPYRIGHT
                          A. C. McCLURG & CO.
                                  1911

                       Published November, 1911.

              Entered at Stationers’ Hall, London, England


                       PRESS OF THE VAIL COMPANY
                          COSHOCTON, U. S. A.




                                PREFACE


The object of this book is to provide not only a practical list of
suggestions that may be of service to those desirous of securing good
and wholesome literature for their children, but also one that may be
used by the children themselves.

This compilation is divided into nineteen groups, in which the books are
graded according to ages, so that selection may be readily made, and
each book title is followed by a short descriptive note.

It is impossible to draw any absolute line as to the particular age a
boy or girl must be in order to read and assimilate the contents of a
certain book, such is the difference in mental development. However,
long experience has shown the compiler what is best adapted to the
average, and the grading has been done accordingly.

Much care has been used in selecting books which have some value in
assisting the gradual evolution of the mind or in shaping character, and
which, at the same time, will make their appeal to the boy or girl.

                                                                P. W. C.




                               _Contents_


                                                       PAGE
            INTRODUCTION                                 ix
            FOR GIRLS EIGHT TO TEN                        1
            FOR GIRLS TEN TO TWELVE                       6
            FOR GIRLS TWELVE TO FOURTEEN                 13
            FOR GIRLS FOURTEEN TO SIXTEEN                23
            FOR BOYS EIGHT TO TEN                        32
            FOR BOYS TEN TO TWELVE                       35
            FOR BOYS TWELVE TO FOURTEEN                  41
            FOR BOYS FOURTEEN TO SIXTEEN                 57
            FOR BOYS SIXTEEN TO EIGHTEEN                 78
            FOR BOYS AND GIRLS THREE TO EIGHT            84
            FOR BOYS AND GIRLS SIX TO TEN                98
            FOR BOYS AND GIRLS TEN TO EIGHTEEN          112
            MYTHS, FAIRY TALES, LEGENDS, AND FOLK LORE  130
            NATURE STUDY                                146
            SCIENCE, HANDICRAFT, AND REFERENCE          155
            BIBLE STORIES                               165
            POETRY                                      171
            SUPPLEMENTARY READING                       175
            INDEX TO TITLES                             185
            INDEX TO AUTHORS                            212




                              INTRODUCTION


It is said that the child is father of the man, and in the matter of
reading this is especially applicable. Material delightful to the
hearing, but perhaps in a lesser degree to the understanding, of a child
of from nine to twelve years of age, yields pleasure also to the adult;
while to children of twelve to sixteen or seventeen the same material
would be dry and uninteresting; its beauty is not intuitively perceived
by them as by their younger brothers. For example, let me cite “Emmy
Lou,” by G. M. Martin; “Little Citizens,” by Myra Kelly, and “Uncle
Remus,” by Joel Chandler Harris. In these stories there is a bond of
sympathy established in the case of the younger child which does not
apply to his older brother. To the adult—who has been through the
various phases of life incident to the reaching of adolescence and
maturity—such stories appeal keenly from a psychological standpoint, so
strong is the bond between adult and child.

In the matter of reading, it must be remembered that the child of seven
is as truly a critic as the man of seventy; and while it is the aim of
the parent or teacher to put into the hands of the child such literature
as will be conducive to his welfare, it is neither wise nor just to
force upon him material against which he instinctively rebels. And here
is where theory and practice conflict. I recall that on my eighth
birthday a much interested relative presented me with a copy of Wm.
Matthew’s “Getting on in the World.” His intentions in making this gift
were admirable; he had my future in view, and he did what he believed to
be a very correct thing. I might either have read the book myself or
have had it read to me. The latter I believe was done, my seniors
entertaining the hope that I would thereby be imbued with ideas which
might become the foundation of future success. Alas! my well-intentioned
relative made the mistake of acting upon false theory instead of
trusting to his practical common sense. Had the proviso been made that I
should read the book at, say, the age of fifteen or earlier, should
development allow, the purpose of the donor might have been met; but as
the book was not suited to my age and understanding, the result was
disappointment to both giver and receiver. This is mentioned as an
instance of misguided zeal, the giver failing to see that the child was
unable to digest and assimilate the proffered mental pabulum. It is only
natural that parents should wish their children to be well informed, and
with this end in view many a fond mother proceeds to fill the head of
her poor defenceless child with science, instead of regaling it with
nursery rhymes, folk lore, and fairy tales. Not infrequently a child
will grow up without having been allowed to read or listen to a fairy
tale. Mythology, travel, history, earth, sky, etc., but nothing that
will not add in some way to scholarly attainment. Poor child! he is
defrauded by his own parents. The desire for the beautiful fairy, the
wicked witch, and the ugly giant is natural to a child. Every human
being is endowed with an imagination which is active and insistent, and
its craving is really the thirst for knowledge.

It may seem strange, perhaps, that the nursery rhyme and the fairy tale
should be rungs of the ladder of knowledge. Take the case of a man at
the head of a profession. He didn’t reach his present height at a jump,
but, beginning with the most elementary subjects, he acquired his
learning by degrees, until in due course he won prominence. And so it is
with the child: step by step come the nursery jingle and rhyme, the
fairy tale, simple poetry, etc., all paving the way for that which
requires more strenuous effort.

It will be noted that there have been mentioned the fairy, the witch,
and the giant. The first represents beauty and goodness, the second
wickedness, and the third brute strength. In the average fairy tale
these three concomitants are so blended that the dominating character is
the fairy, who eventually prevails over the machinations of the wicked
witch and the brutal giant. As the fairy represents love and kindness, a
most important lesson is impressed upon the mind of the child. There is
also a good reason for the witch and the giant. The child is not born
already civilized, but with natural and savage instincts. Civilization,
which is only a veneer, is an acquired thing, and it needs only a
scratch to bring the savage instinct to the surface. The witch and the
giant, then, do their part in appeasing the desire for violence; and the
fact that these disturbing elements are finally overcome by the good
fairy is a great factor in the early education of the child.

The best collection of tales for very young children is that known as
“Mother Goose Nursery Tales,” gathered together by Charles Perrault. The
origin of most of these tales is lost in the shades of antiquity.

Every parent should have in mind the great importance to the child of
the literature he reads. Much good or much harm may be the result of the
early impressions gained. The safest way is to procure books from one
who specializes, and who knows the general trend of the contents of a
book. There are authors and publishers who may be relied upon for the
wholesomeness of their productions, and with these the book-buyer will
soon become familiar; but the general output is so large, the authors
and publishers so many, and the tastes so varied, that the wise
book-buyer will rely to a great extent upon the bookseller in the matter
of selection.

There is a period in the life of almost every boy when the desire for
the sensational is paramount. Then must the parent be most watchful,
because somehow the boy will secure reading material which may possibly
be decidedly harmful. How often do we read of a boy in possession of a
cheap revolver or a bloodthirsty-looking knife being apprehended while
on his way to slay Indians, or to become a bandit or a pirate. His
actions are almost always directly traceable to the dime novel or the
penny dreadful so easily procured. Happily there are plenty of books on
the market which will satisfy the boy’s craving for the wild and
adventurous, and which will at the same time be of some benefit to him
in leading him to become interested in certain periods of history or in
implanting a desire for information regarding the geography of this and
other countries.

From a literary standpoint these books are as a rule mediocre, but they
are valuable as substitutes for the more lurid effusions. In this
connection may be mentioned the productions of Stratemeyer, Henty, Otis,
Strang, Monroe, Stoddard, and Brereton, etc., which may be given without
question to the boy of from ten to sixteen years. At the age of twelve
to sixteen most boys develop a desire for school, college, and outing
stories, and numerous authors cater to this taste. Among the better
known of these are Barbour, Home, Finnemore, Malone, Beach, Hare, Earl,
Tomlinson, and Paine; and all their books for boys may be relied upon.

While the output of books for boys is greater than that for girls, there
is plenty of good wholesome literature, suitable to all ages of
girlhood, from which to draw. Up to the age of nine or ten years the
line of reading for the girl may be substantially the same as that for
her brother, unless it be that the liking for the fairy tale is more
pronounced in her case. In the matter of a desire for really good
literature it may be said that the girl is usually more advanced than
the boy. From eleven to fifteen years of age is the best time for
historical tales, such as those by A. M. Barnes, Lucy F. Madison, and A.
T. Curtis; and from twelve to sixteen those by Amy Blanchard and
Charlotte M. Yonge. The series of Young Folks’ Histories by the last
named author may be read by children from ten years up with pleasure and
profit. The justly popular “Little Women” series by Louisa M. Alcott
should be read by girls of from twelve to sixteen; they will not be
properly appreciated at an age younger than twelve. For those of a more
tender age, ranging from seven to eleven, this author’s other series
“The Scrap Bag,” and “Lulu’s Library,” make good, wholesome reading. The
girl of ten to thirteen years will be much interested in Marguerite
Bouvet’s “Little Marjorie’s Love Story,” “Sweet William,” and “A Child
of Tuscany”; while her older sister of sixteen to eighteen will be
delighted with “My Lady” and “Tales of an Old Chateau,” by the same
author.

Of course, there is such temperamental difference in children that it is
absolutely impossible to draw any hard and fast line in the matter of
reading according to age, but in the cases of nine out of ten children
it is safe to avoid the theoretical and to accept the practical. There
are children of twelve taking a high school course, and there are also
children of fifteen in the lower grades; but these are exceptions and
not the rule.

A very important item in the education of the child is the supplementary
reader, and the idea of training the child’s literary instinct by this
means is fostered by all educators. There have been much time, thought,
and experience devoted to this subject, and there are now in use many
splendid series, arranged for the various grades, the high school, and
the college. The field is wide and a great wealth of real literature has
been selected, annotated, and arranged, and additions are continually
being made to the already long list.

For the grades, perhaps the best collection is that by Dr. Charles Eliot
Norton called “The Heart of Oak Books,” in the first two volumes of
which will be found a splendid selection of fairy tales, fables, wonder
stories, and rhymes. The whole series is of general excellence. The
supplementary reading should begin with rhymes, fairy tales, and fables,
followed by simple mythology, legends, and folk lore; then nature
stories, biography, history, stories of travel, science in story form,
art, and the classics of literature. Four series in which most of these
subjects are contained are Ginn & Co.’s “Classics for Children” and the
“Eclectic Readings” published by the American Book Company, “The
Riverside Literature Series,” published by Houghton Mifflin Co., and
Appleton’s “Home Reading Books.” For the high school student may be
recommended the “Riverside Literature Series,” Longman’s “English
Classics,” “The Lake English Classics,” and the “Macmillan School
Readings.”

There is no question that the supplementary reader in the school has
done much to improve the literary taste of the pupil, and it is probable
that the regular reader will to a great extent be superseded by the
supplementary reader.

And now as to illustrations and artists. For children of one, two, and
three years the rag toy book is very satisfactory. The colors are bright
and attractive, and when soiled the book may be washed and ironed the
same as a handkerchief. Then there are the linen books and those mounted
on linen. Of these there are few standards, but titles such as “The
Three Bears,” “Three Little Kittens,” “A. was an Archer,” “Farmyard
Friends,” “Domestic Animals,” and “Wild Animals” can almost always be
secured. There are four houses in the United States which pay special
attention to the very young children,—E. P. Dutton & Co., Raphael Tuck,
Sons & Co., F. Warne & Co., and McLaughlin & Co., and of these firms
only the last does any actual manufacturing in this country. Perhaps
four-fifths of this class of color work for the world is done in
Germany. Some of the best examples are the productions of Kate
Greenaway, Leslie Brooke, Randolph Caldecott, and Walter Crane. These
four artists have given us the best examples of real art for children,
and their picture and toy books should be a great deal more widely known
than they are. The manufacturing of the books of these four artists is
all done in England; and for real art, combined with mechanical
excellence, they are absolutely the finest picture books ever put before
the public. Among English artists Milicent Sowerby is well worthy of
recognition; among her delightful books are “Childhood” and “Yesterday’s
Children,” published in America by Duffield & Co. Among the artists of
this country whose masterpieces depict childhood, Jessie Willcox Smith
stands preëminent. Her illustrations in “Real Rhymes of Real Children,”
“The Book of the Child,” etc., have made her the most popular among
American artists whose work is devoted to the delineation of child life.
Books which she has illustrated and which contain good examples of her
art, besides the two already mentioned, are “The Child’s Garden of
Verses,” “A Child’s Book of Old Verses,” “Seven Ages of Childhood,” “The
Child’s Book of Stories,” and “Dream Blocks.”

Of a very different type are the clever and humorous illustrations by
Grace G. Wiederseim, which may be seen to good advantage in “Nursery
Rhymes from Mother Goose,” “Kiddie Land,” “Bobby Blake,” and “Dolly
Drake.” Peter Newell has also done excellent humorous work, such as “The
Hole Book,” “The Slant Book,” “Pictures and Rhymes,” “Alice in
Wonderland,” etc. B. Cory Kilvert, John Rae, Bessie Pease Gutman, Hope
Dunlap, Ethel Franklin Betts, and Wilhelmina Seegmiller have all done
most attractive work which appeals to the younger children. The artist
who is capable of producing illustrations attractive alike to both child
and adult, and which are understood by both, is what may be termed a
sympathetic genius; he also represents a distinctive branch of art. All
whose names have been mentioned in this connection possess this great
gift.

A splendid series of illustrations is contained in Boutet de Monvel’s
“Joan of Arc.” This book is for the more mature child, and is in a class
by itself. Maxfield Parrish has illustrated Eugene Field’s “Poems of
Childhood,” “The Arabian Nights,” Hawthorne’s “The Wonder Book and
Tanglewood Tales,” and “Mother Goose in Prose” by Frank Baum, and each
illustration is a very worthy contribution to American art.

Two very attractive books are “When Little Boys Sing” and “Improving
Songs for Anxious Children,” songs for children written and illustrated
by John and Rue Carpenter. From the standpoint of art these
illustrations are not entitled to any very high place, but they show
originality and humor of expression.

Among the later artists who have made a name for themselves as
illustrators of children’s books is Lucy Fitch Perkins; fine examples of
her work are shown in “The Goose Girl” and in Mrs. C. H. Harrison’s
books, “The Moon Prince,” “The Flaming Sword,” and “Prince Silver
Wings”; also in a series called the “Dandelion Classics,” which include
“Robin Hood,” “Twenty Best Fairy Tales,” “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “A
Wonder Book,” and “Æsop’s Fables.”

During the last few years several artists have achieved fame through
their genius in illustrating books for the young. Among the more
prominent of these are Arthur Rackham, Edmund Dulac, and Warwick Goble.
Among the books illustrated by Arthur Rackham are “Peter Pan,” “The
Rainbow Book,” “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” and Grimm’s “Fairy
Tales.” To Edmund Dulac may be credited among others, “The Arabian
Nights,” and “The Sleeping Beauty.”




                           ONE THOUSAND BOOKS
                              FOR CHILDREN




                        _For Girls Eight to Ten_


  ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. By C. L. Dodgson (Lewis Carroll).

The fairy story of a little girl who ran through a rabbit hole into a
very queer country, and of her adventures there. The humor of “Alice’s
Adventures in Wonderland” and “Through the Looking-Glass” will also
appeal to grown-ups.


  CHRISTMAS EVERY DAY. By William Dean Howells.

The story of a little girl who wishes that every day were Christmas Day.


  DOLLY’S DOUBLE. By Ethel Wood.

Two girls, Dolly and Isabel, are so much alike that they can hardly be
told apart. They are not supposed to be related, but they live together,
and later, by the clearing up of a mystery, it appears that they are
really sisters.


  GRANDPA’S LITTLE GIRLS. By Alice T. Curtis.

Two little girls are sent to Grandfather Newman at Pine Tree Farm while
their parents are absent in California. The story tells very amusingly
how the old people and the young people plotted to remain together.


  GRANDPA’S LITTLE GIRLS AND THEIR FRIENDS. By Alice T. Curtis.

The third book about the Newmans. They find that the best way to lead at
school is to be of service to others.


  GRANDPA’S LITTLE GIRLS AT SCHOOL. By Alice T. Curtis.

The second book about the little Newman girls. Tells how they ran away
to escape going to school, how they finally went and wouldn’t have
missed it for anything.


  GRANDPA’S LITTLE GIRLS’ HOUSEBOAT PARTY. By Alice T. Curtis.

The Newmans and their friends have a very jolly kind of a party on the
house-boat. They camp out, go fishing and swimming, and have many
pleasant adventures.


  LITTLE GIRL OF LONG AGO, A. By Eliza Orne White.

Tells about a little Boston girl in the early part of the nineteenth
century.


  LITTLE GIRL NEXT DOOR, THE. By Nina Rhoades.

The story of a genuine friendship between an impulsive little girl in a
fine New York home and a little blind girl in an apartment next door.


  LITTLE MISS ROSAMOND. By Nina Rhoades.

Rosamond goes to the seaside cottage of an uncle whose home is in New
York. Here she finds herself a neighbor to Gladys and Joy, who appear in
a previous book, “The Little Girl Next Door.”


  LITTLE QUEEN OF HEARTS, A. By Ruth Ogden (Mrs. C. W. Ide).

The account of a little American girl who went on a visit to England,
where she met the Queen and had numerous interesting adventures.


  LITTLE ROSEBUD. By Beatrice Harraden.

See “Things Will Take a Turn.”


  MEG AND OTHERS. By Harriet T. Comstock.

A little girl of the “long ago” and her doings.


  NEW-YEAR’S BARGAIN, A. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

Contains fairy stories, a bear story, and stories about little girls.


  ONLY CHILD, AN. By Eliza Orne White.

A pretty story about a lonely little girl.


  OTHER SYLVIA, THE. By Nina Rhoades.

Sylvia learns that girls who are “King’s Daughters” pledge themselves to
do kind acts and to help others. One little girl named Mary tries to
assist all the “Marys” of her acquaintance, and Sylvia endeavors to find
another of her own name that she may help, and the search brings her
happiness.


  POLLY COLOGNE. By Mrs. A. M. Diaz.

Tells how a much-loved rag doll was lost and found.


  PRINCESS IDLEWAYS. By Helen Hays.

The fairy Industry looks after this little princess, whose chief fault
is idleness, and teaches her sympathy, helpfulness, and other pleasant
things.


  STORY OF LITTLE JANE AND ME. By Mary E. Blatchford.

The story of two little girls who lived in New York City.


  THINGS WILL TAKE A TURN. By Beatrice Harraden.

Tells how Little Rosebud helped her father in the old book shop. The
same story is also published under the title of “Little Rosebud.”


  THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS. By C. L. Dodgson (Lewis M. Carroll).

A companion to “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.”


  WEE WINKLES AND SNOWBALL. By Gabrielle E. Jackson.

A companion story to “Wee Winkles and Wideawake.” Snowball is a pet
pony. Kindness to animals is the keynote of the story.


  WEE WINKLES AND WIDEAWAKE. By Gabrielle E. Jackson.

A story of a little boy and girl living in a suburban town, who have
various merry, comical, and serious experiences such as naturally happen
to all lively children.




                       _For Girls Ten to Twelve_


  ANNE NELSON, A LITTLE MAID OF PROVINCE TOWN. By Alice Turner Curtis.

The story of a quaint, lovable little, motherless girl in Revolutionary
days, whose father is supposed to have deserted and turned spy for the
English.


  BORROWED SISTER, A. By Eliza Orne White.

A companion to “An Only Child.” The borrowed sister is a little girl who
was left for a year in charge of “an only child’s” mother.


  CAPTAIN JANUARY. By Laura E. Richards.

A tale with humor and pathos. The chief characters are an old lighthouse
keeper and a little girl whose life he has saved.


  CARROTS. By Mary L. Molesworth.

Tells of the care and love of a little girl for her small brother.


  DEAR DAUGHTER DOROTHY, AND DOROTHY AND ANTON. By A. G. Plympton.

The story of a winsome little maid who attracts through her loyalty and
love.


  EDITHA’S BURGLAR. By Frances Hodgson Burnett.

The adventures of a little girl with a burglar.


  EYEBRIGHT. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

The story of a little girl’s school days in Maine.


  FELICIA. By Elizabeth Lincoln Gould.

The story of a warm-hearted little girl of thirteen, who, in her efforts
to keep house for her father, has many interesting experiences.


  FELICIA’S FRIENDS. By Elizabeth Lincoln Gould.

A continuation of “Felicia.” A happy story of the school life of a
good-hearted little girl.


  FELICIA VISITS. By Elizabeth Lincoln Gould.

Felicia, disappointed at her father’s refusal to allow her to visit
Boston, consoles herself by making short visits in her home village, and
busying herself with plans for a public library.


  JANET AND HER DEAR PHEBE. By Clarissa Dixon.

Janet and Phebe are two natural, healthy little girls who love each
other with an intense affection.


  LITTLE COLONIAL DAME, A. By Agnes C. Sage.

A story of old Manhattan Island.


  LITTLE DAUGHTER OF THE REVOLUTION, A. By Agnes C. Sage.

A tale of the War of Independence; tells about the Boston Tea Party and
concludes with Washington’s inauguration.


  LITTLE HEROINE OF ILLINOIS, A. By Alice T. Curtis.

A story of the early days of the Civil War. This little girl, with rare
discretion and courage, renders an important service to the cause of the
Union.


  LITTLE PRINCESS, A. By Frances Hodgson Burnett.

The whole story of Sara Crewe and Mrs. Minchin’s School.


  LITTLE PRINCESS OF TONOPAH, A. By Aileen C. Higgins.

A little girl and her father leave a sleepy village in the East and go
to a Western mining camp, where they live in a tent. The story tells how
Jean Kingsley helps her father in the search for fortune.


  LITTLE PRINCESS OF THE PINES, A. By Aileen C. Higgins.

Follows “A Little Princess of Tonopah.” Jean Kingsley and her father go
to Minnesota. She goes to school, makes many friends, and enjoys a
Northwestern winter. The incidents include visits to the lumber camps
and iron mines, and a forest fire.


  MAIDA’S LITTLE SHOP. By Inez H. Gillmore.

The little daughter of a millionaire, cured of hip disease, pines for
want of occupation. The idea is conceived of having Maida “keep store,”
and the story tells of her experiences.


  MARGOT, THE COURT SHOEMAKER’S DAUGHTER. By Millicent E. Mann.

A story of the persecution of the Huguenots. The court shoemaker is
warned of impending trouble, and manages to have his child taken to New
Amsterdam (America), where she meets adventures among Indians.


  MAYKEN. By Jessie Anderson Chase.

The adventures of the little daughter of William, Prince of Orange,
during the siege of Leyden.


  PATRICIA. By Emelia Elliott.

Tells about a most ingenuous girl, whose simplicity and childish
innocence lead her into some very amusing situations.


  SARA CREWE; LITTLE SAINT ELIZABETH, AND OTHER STORIES. By Frances
      Hodgson Burnett.

Sara Crewe was brought from India to London by her father, and placed
under the care of Miss Minchin, who conducted what she termed “a select
seminary for young ladies.” The humor and pathos of Sara’s experiences
while with Miss Minchin have an especial appeal to children. In addition
to “Sara Crewe,” there are the following stories: “Little Saint
Elizabeth”; “The Story of Prince Fairyfoot”; “The Proud Little Grain of
Wheat”; “Behind the White Brick.”


  SATURDAY MORNINGS. By Caroline F. Benton.

Tells how to make a kitchen fire, set a table, sweep, dust, etc.


  “US,” AND THE RECTORY CHILDREN. By Mary L. Molesworth.

The adventures of a twin brother and sister who ran away from home.


  WHAT KATY DID. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

The story of a happy, active little girl who learns lessons of patience
and endurance. Vol. I of the “Katy Did” Series.


  WHAT KATY DID AT SCHOOL. By Sarah C. Woolsey. (Susan Coolidge.)

A story of boarding-school life. Vol. II of the “Katy Did” Series.


  WHEN SARAH SAVED THE DAY. By Elsie Singmaster.

The story of a young Pennsylvania-German girl, an orphan, and her
efforts at home-making while one of her brothers is away in Alaska.


  WHEN SARAH WENT TO SCHOOL. By Elsie Singmaster.

Shows how by steady persistency and habitual cheerfulness a little
Pennsylvania-German won out at boarding-school in spite of her shyness
and quaint dialect. Follows “When Sarah Saved the Day.”


  YOUNGEST GIRL IN THE SCHOOL, THE. By Evelyn Sharp.

The “youngest girl” is eleven years old, and the pet of five brothers.
The story is about her doings in a strange boarding-school.




                     _For Girls Twelve to Fourteen_


  BETTY LEICESTER. By Sarah Orne Jewett.

A New England village story, in which a girl of fifteen spends a summer
with two old aunts.


  BETTY LEICESTER’S CHRISTMAS. By Sarah Orne Jewett.

Tells how Christmas is kept in the good old English way. A companion to
“Betty Leicester.”


  CAPTAIN POLLY. By Sophie Swett.

Captain Polly fits up an old wreck, in which she carries on a small
candy business. She also exposes the conspiracy of a secret society.


  CLOVER. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

Vol. IV of the “Katy Did” Series. The scene is laid in Colorado.


  COCK-A-DOODLE HILL. By Alice C. Haines.

A sequel to “The Luck of the Dudley Grahams.” Where the Dudley Grahams
went to live when they left New York and where Ernie started her chicken
farm.


  DANDELION COTTAGE. By Carroll W. Rankin.

A housekeeping story for girls.


  ELIZABETH’S CHARM-STRING. By Cora Bell Forbes.

Legends of saints, places, and pictures, told simply and in a
conversational manner.


  “FOUR CORNERS” SERIES, THE. By Amy E. Blanchard.

         1. FOUR CORNERS, THE.

         2. FOUR CORNERS IN CALIFORNIA, THE.

         3. FOUR CORNERS AT SCHOOL, THE.

         4. FOUR CORNERS ABROAD, THE.

         5. FOUR CORNERS IN CAMP, THE.

         6. FOUR CORNERS AT COLLEGE, THE.

The “Four Corners” are four girls whose name is Corner. They have the
experiences that naturally are the lot of healthy, growing children. In
the sixth volume they matriculate at Bettersley College, and begin to
carry out some long-cherished plans. Wholesome and entertaining stories.


  GIRL OF ’76. By Amy E. Blanchard.

A story of Colonial Boston.


  GIRLS OF GARDENVILLE, THE. By Carroll W. Rankin.

Amusing stories of a girls’ club.


  GIRLS WHO BECAME FAMOUS. By Sarah K. Bolton.

Sketches of George Eliot, Helen H. Jackson, Harriet Hosmer, Rosa
Bonheur, Florence Nightingale, and others.


  GLENLOCK GIRLS. By Grace M. Remick.

Ruth Shirley, a girl of fourteen, goes to live with friends at Glenlock
while her father is abroad. She wins her way with other high school
girls and boys, who together find many sources of pleasure.


  GLENLOCK GIRLS ABROAD. By Grace M. Remick.

A sequel to “Glenlock Girls.” Ruth Shirley goes abroad for a winter, and
later some of her Glenlock friends join her, and together they have a
very enjoyable time.


  HEIDI. By Johanna Spyri.

The story of a little Swiss girl who lives with her blind grandfather in
a hut in the Alps.


  HISTORIC GIRLHOODS. By Rupert S. Holland.

Tells of Saint Catherine, Joan of Arc, Vittoria Colonna, Catherine de
Medici, Lady Jane Grey, Mary, Queen of Scots, Pocahontas, etc.


  HOME-COMERS, THE. By Winifred Kirkland.

The Home-comers are four orphans from eight to eighteen who come back
from the West to live with their grandmother among the Eastern
mountains.


  IN THE HIGH VALLEY. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

Tells of the visit of an English girl to Colorado. Vol. V of the “Katy
Did” Series.


  JACQUELINE OF THE CARRIER PIGEONS. By Augusta H. Seaman.

A story of the historic siege of Leyden, in which the young heroine and
her brave brother play a significant part. The raising of the siege, the
breaking of the dikes, and the sailing of the Dutch warships are
graphically depicted.


  JUDY. By Temple Bailey.

The story of a little girl who develops from a spoiled child into a
happy and good-natured one.


  LASS OF THE SILVER SWORD, THE. By Mary Constance Du Bois.

A very entertaining school story. The “Silver Sword” is a society formed
by the girls, the object of which is to engender feelings of love and
kindness.


  LEAGUE OF THE SIGNET-RING, THE. By Mary Constance Du Bois.

A sequel to “The Lass of the Silver Sword.” The story begins with a
happy house-party at Wyndgarth; then there is fun and adventure in the
Adirondacks, and a happy ending in the country home where the story
opens. These two books teach lessons of love and loyalty.


  LITTLE COLONEL SERIES, THE. By Annie Fellows Johnston. 10 to 14.

         1. LITTLE COLONEL STORIES, THE.

            Contains “The Little Colonel,” “Gate of the Giant Scissors,”
              “Two Little Knights of Kentucky.”

         2. LITTLE COLONEL’S HOUSE-PARTY, THE.

         3. LITTLE COLONEL’S HOLIDAYS, THE.

         4. LITTLE COLONEL’S HERO, THE.

         5. LITTLE COLONEL AT BOARDING-SCHOOL, THE.

         6. LITTLE COLONEL IN ARIZONA, THE.

         7. LITTLE COLONEL’S CHRISTMAS VACATION, THE.

         8. LITTLE COLONEL, MAID OF HONOR, THE.

         9. LITTLE COLONEL’S KNIGHT COMES RIDING, THE.

        10. MARY WARE, THE LITTLE COLONEL’S CHUM.

        11. MARY WARE IN TEXAS.

These are among the most popular stories for girls published. “The
Little Colonel” is a thoroughbred, the stories are wholesome, and the
tone high.


  LITTLE COUNTRY GIRL, A. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

The story of a Connecticut girl’s summer at Newport.


  LITTLE LADY AT THE FALL OF QUEBEC. By Annie M. Barnes.

Anne Weldon, heiress to an English estate, is in Quebec when it is
besieged by General Wolfe. She carries the information which enables him
to gain the Plains of Abraham and the city. Wolfe and Montcalm figure in
the story.


  LITTLE WOMEN. By Louisa M. Alcott.

An especially good and wholesome story for girls. Based on the early
life of Miss Alcott and her sisters.


  LUCK OF THE DUDLEY GRAHAMS, THE. By Alice C. Haines.

A family story of city life.


  MERRYLIPS. By Beulah Marie Dix.

A story of the Roundheads and Cavaliers. Tells of a girl held as hostage
by the Roundheads, and who escapes, disguised as a boy.


  NELLY’S SILVER MINE. By Helen Hunt Jackson.

A story of Colorado life. Excellent.


  OLD-FASHIONED GIRL, AN. By Louisa M. Alcott.

The life in the city of a sensible little girl reared in the country.


  ORCUTT GIRLS, THE. By Charlotte M. Vaile.

A story of New England school life.


  OWLS OF ST. URSULA’S, THE. By Jane Brewster Reid.

The pranks and escapades of four girls at boarding-school.


  PEGGY OWEN. By Lucy Foster Madison.

The story of a patriotic Quaker maiden in Philadelphia during its
occupation by the British. Washington, Franklin, and Betsy Ross figure
in the story.


  PEGGY OWEN, PATRIOT. By Lucy Foster Madison.

Follows “Peggy Owen.” Peggy and her mother go to spend the winter with
her father, who is in the American army, then near Morristown, New
Jersey. Through the treachery of her cousin, an English girl, Peggy is
captured and taken to New York and afterward to the South. She has many
exciting adventures before seeing her parents again.


  PRETTY POLLY PERKINS. By Gabrielle E. Jackson.

The story of a little country girl with a love for drawing, and of her
friendship for a lame girl who comes from the city.


  REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM. By Kate Douglas Wiggin.

The story of a fascinating little girl. Full of real humor.


  “SIX GIRLS” SERIES, THE. By Marion Ames Taggart.

         1. SIX GIRLS AND BOB.

         2. SIX GIRLS AND THE TEA ROOM.

         3. SIX GIRLS GROWING OLDER.

         4. SIX GIRLS AND THE SEVENTH ONE.

         5. BETTY GASTON—THE SEVENTH GIRL.

A wholesome series of stories relating the doings of the Scollard
family, consisting of six girls, Bob, and their mother, and their friend
Betty Gaston.


  “SPINNING-WHEEL” SERIES, THE. By Louisa M. Alcott.

         1. SPINNING-WHEEL STORIES.

         2. SILVER PITCHERS: AND INDEPENDENCE.

         3. PROVERB STORIES.

         4. GARLAND FOR GIRLS, A.

A collection of wholesome short stories.


  SUE ORCUTT. By Charlotte M. Vaile.

A sequel to “The Orcutt Girls.” Life at a New England academy.


  THREE LITTLE DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION. By Nora Perry.

Stories of Dorothy Merridew, Patty Endicott, and Betty Boston, three
girls whose loyalty to their country was put to some hard tests.


  WHAT KATY DID NEXT. By Sarah C. Woolsey (Susan Coolidge).

Tells of Katy’s trip to Europe. Vol. III of the “Katy Did” Series.


  YOUNG LUCRETIA, AND OTHER STORIES. By Mrs. C. M. Freeman (Mary E.
      Wilkins).

Delightfully humorous stories about little New England country girls.




                    _For Girls Fourteen to Sixteen_


  ACROSS THE CAMPUS. By Caroline M. Fuller.

A girl’s college story.


  ANNE OF AVONLEA. By Lucy M. Montgomery.

A sequel to “Anne of Green Gables.”


  ANNE OF GREEN GABLES. By Lucy M. Montgomery.

An elderly brother and sister, living on a farm on Prince Edward’s
Island, want a boy to assist them. The brother asks for one from an
orphan asylum and a girl is sent instead. This is one of the best
stories of recent years for girls.


  BIOGRAPHY OF A PRAIRIE GIRL, THE. By Eleanor Gates.

A story of life on a Dakota farm.


  CAPTAIN’S DAUGHTER, THE. By Gwendolen Overton.

A story of girl life at an army post on the frontier.


  CAPTAIN POLLY OF ANNAPOLIS. By Gabrielle E. Jackson.

Polly is an original, attractive little girl, a leader among her
playfellows, and with ideals which make her seem older than her years.
The story is linked with the Naval Academy, and the Battleship fleet
which made the journey round the world.


  CONFIDENCES—TALKS WITH A YOUNG GIRL CONCERNING HERSELF. By E. B.
      Lowry, M.D.

Gives the facts concerning the development of life in such clear and
suitable language that it may be placed in the hands of the young girl.


  DALE GIRLS, THE. By Frances Weston Carruth.

A story of every-day life, with two attractive young heroines.


  DAUGHTER OF FREEDOM, A. By Amy E. Blanchard.

A story of the latter period of the War for Independence.


  DOROTHY BROOKE’S SCHOOL DAYS. By Frances C. Sparhawk.


  DOROTHY BROOKE’S VACATION. By Frances C. Sparhawk.

The first volume is a good story of school life, and the second tells of
a vacation spent in great part on a motor trip. A chauffeur who enacts
the villain; an elderly young lady, and an absent-minded professor
supply a source of good-humored fun.


  ELINOR’S COLLEGE CAREER. By Julia A. Schwartz.

Takes four girls of widely different characters through the four years
of college, supposedly Vassar.


  FAITH GARTNEY’S GIRLHOOD. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

Tells about Faith’s New Year oracle, and of what it meant to her.


  FROLICS AT FAIRMOUNT. By Etta A. Baker.

Follows “The Girls of Fairmount.”


  FROM SIOUX TO SUSAN. By Agnes McClelland Daulton.

Tells about a brave, generous, madcap girl, who had times of storm and
stress in overcoming her faults.


  GIRL WANTED, THE. By Nixon Waterman.

Cheerful, friendly talks to young women. An aid to the moulding of
temperament and the shaping of character.


  GIRLS OF FAIRMOUNT, THE. By Etta A. Baker.

A story of genuine, natural, and generous girls; the keynote is loyalty
to friends.


  HEARTS AND CORONETS. By Alice Wilson Fox.

The school life of Audrey Denver, which includes some rather unusual
experiences.


  HITHERTO. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

A story of New England country life of fifty years ago.


  JANET’S COLLEGE CAREER. By Amy E. Blanchard.

Tells of the studies, pleasures, and various experiences that make up
the life of a college girl.


  KATRINA. By Ellen Douglas Deland.

The story of a girl who indulged her waywardness and stand-offishness
until she learned the sad results brought about by such qualities.


  LAND OF PLUCK, THE. By Mary Mapes Dodge.

A series of stories and sketches, chiefly of Holland.


  NEW CHRONICLES OF REBECCA. By Kate Douglas Wiggin.

This book takes Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm up to her eighteenth
birthday.


  OH! CHRISTINA! By J. J. Bell.

Christina is a quaint, good-hearted little Scotch girl, and her dialect
is very funny to American ears. Very humorous.


  OTHER GIRLS, THE. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

A companion to “Real Folks.”


  PHILIPPA AT HALCYON. By Katharine Holland Brown.

A rattling good college story for girls. It is full of fun, and the
characters are very human.


  POLLY PAGE RANCH CLUB, THE. By Izola L. Forrester.

Sprightly Polly Page is brimful of ideas and is quite able to carry them
out. She plans a summer outing in Wyoming for the Ranch Club and
arranges for the jolly good times the girls have while there. Polly is a
thoroughly fine, all-round girl, who cannot fail to make friends.
Follows “The Polly Page Yacht Club.”


  POLLY PAGE YACHT CLUB, THE. By Izola L. Forrester.

A sprightly girl, leader of her set, forms a yacht club, secures a
yacht, and engages a skipper to sail it. The story tells about the jolly
times the club members have.


  PRAIRIE ROSE, A. By Bertha E. Bush.

A true-to-life story of pioneer days in Iowa.


  REAL FOLKS. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

Two orphan sisters are adopted, one into a family where luxury abounds,
and the other into a simple country home. Follows “We Girls.”


  REVOLUTIONARY MAID, A. By Amy E. Blanchard.

A story of the middle period in the War for Independence.


  THE “SIDNEY” BOOKS. By Anna Chapin Ray.

         1. SIDNEY: HER SUMMER ON THE ST. LAWRENCE.

         2. JANET: HER WINTER IN QUEBEC.

         3. DAY: HER YEAR IN NEW YORK.

         4. SIDNEY AT COLLEGE.

         5. JANET AT ODDS.

         6. SIDNEY: HER SENIOR YEAR.

Very interesting stories of Smith College life. In the last volume the
Commencement that ends the story rounds out several love affairs which
have developed in this group of young people.


  SISTER’S VOCATION, AND OTHER STORIES. By Josephine Daskam Bacon.

A collection of eight stories of which girls are the heroines. Each has
a striking situation and incident, and is well told.


  SUMMER IN LESLIE GOLDTHWAITE’S LIFE, A. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

About a summer spent in the White Mountains. A story full of kindly,
Christian feeling, spiced with quaint New England characters and their
odd reflections. Followed by “We Girls,” “Real Folks,” and “The Other
Girls.”


  “TEDDY BOOKS,” THE. By Anna Chapin Ray.

         1. TEDDY: HER BOOK.

         2. PHEBE: HER PROFESSION.

         3. TEDDY: HER DAUGHTER.

         4. NATHALIE’S CHUM.

         5. URSULA’S FRESHMAN.

         6. NATHALIE’S SISTER.

There is genuine sympathy with boy and girl life in these books. The
style is unaffected, and the stories give a wholesome view of life.


  THAT FRESHMAN. By Christina Catrevas.

A Mount Holyoke College story for girls. The heroine is an impulsive,
attractive girl, with fine attributes of character.


  TWO COLLEGE GIRLS. By Helen Dawes Brown.

Tells of college life, with its classroom dilemmas, spreads, and holiday
merrymakings.


  TWO MARYLAND GIRLS. By Amy E. Blanchard.

The story of two girls just home from boarding-school, who are
introduced to the social life of an old Maryland town.


  TWO WYOMING GIRLS. By Carrie L. Marshall.

Two girls, thrown upon their own resources, are obliged to “prove up”
their homestead claim. In doing so they meet with difficulties and
adventures.


  WE GIRLS. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.

The home life of three New England girls. Sequel to “A Summer in Leslie
Goldthwaite’s Life.”


  “WIDE AWAKE GIRLS” SERIES, THE. By Ruth K. Ellis.

         1. WIDE AWAKE GIRLS, THE.

         2. WIDE AWAKE GIRLS IN WINSTED, THE.

         3. WIDE AWAKE GIRLS AT COLLEGE, THE.

Bright stories, full of action. The “Wide Awake” girls establish a
library in a country town. The third volume tells of the youthful gaiety
of college life.




                        _For Boys Eight to Ten_


  ARKANSAS BEAR, THE. By Albert Bigelow Paine.

A very humorous story of a big, black bear and a little boy.


  CAPTAIN JUNE. By Alice Hegan Rice.

The story of a little American boy, who has many interesting and unusual
experiences in Japan.


  J. COLE. By Emma Gellibrand.

The story of a small boy of little education, but honest and courageous,
who answered an advertisement for a boy wanted for work in a household.
It tells how he came, how he stayed, how he won hearts, and how he left.


  LITTLE FORESTERS, THE. By Clarence Hawkes.

A splendid story; contains just enough of the supernatural to make it a
very pleasing wonder story.


  LITTLE LAME PRINCE, THE. By Mrs. Craik (Miss Mulock).

Tales of woodland and field, in which the animals have speaking parts.


  LITTLE METACOMET. By Hezekiah Butterworth.

Life in New England in pioneer days.


  LOYAL LITTLE RED-COAT, A. By Ruth Ogden (Mrs. C. W. Ide).

A story of child life in New York a hundred years ago.


  PINOCCHIO. By C. Collodi.

The adventures of a marionette. Translated from the Italian.


  PRINCE LAZYBONES, AND OTHER STORIES. By Helen Hays.

The story of a little boy who, by the aid of the elves, cured himself of
his bad habit. The three other stories are “Phil’s Fairies”; “Floria and
Floriella,” and “Boreas Bluster’s Christmas Stories.” The last two are
Christmas stories.


  ROLLO AT WORK. By Jacob Abbott.


  ROLLO AT PLAY. By Jacob Abbott.

Books which are entertaining and instructive.


  TOMMY TROT’S VISIT TO SANTA CLAUS. By Thomas Nelson Page.

A boy’s story of Christmas. The small boy with the goat team and the
youngster who had never coasted before make a wonderful trip to Santa
Claus Land, and find out how he makes his presents, how he stores them,
who gets them, and why they get them.




                        _For Boys Ten to Twelve_


  ADVENTURES OF JIMMY BROWN, THE. By W. L. Alden.

Full of fun and humor. Jimmy plays circus, amuses himself with a monkey,
tries to be a pirate, and makes experiments with unexpected (to him)
results.


  AMONG THE CAMPS. By Thomas Nelson Page.

Stories of the Civil War. Contents: “A Captured Santa Claus”;
“Kittykin”; “Nancy Pansy”; “Jack and Jake.”


  BOB’S CAVE BOYS. By C. P. Burton.

A sequel to “The Boys of Bob’s Hill.”


  BOB’S HILL BRAVES, THE. By C. P. Burton.

Tells of a vacation which the boys of Bob’s Hill spend in Illinois,
where they play at being Indians, and hear tales of pioneer life.


  BOYNTON PLUCK, THE. By Helen Ward Banks.

Bob and Billy, sent away for the summer, by mistake get into the hands
of a mean old farmer. It takes pluck to stand their hard luck, but in
the end they are all the better for their experiences.


  BOYS OF BOB’S HILL, THE. By C. P. Burton.

A lively story of a party of boys in a New England village.


  CRUISE OF THE CANOE CLUB, THE. By William L. Alden.

A sequel to “The Cruise of the ‘Ghost.’” The four boys cruise in canoes
from Lake Memphremagog, Vermont, down the Magog, St. Francis, and St.
Lawrence Rivers to Quebec.


  CRUISE OF THE “GHOST,” THE. By William L. Alden.

A sequel to “The Moral Pirates.” The boys, with a young naval cadet,
cruise in a twenty-foot catboat through the bays along the south shore
of Long Island.


  CUORE: AN ITALIAN SCHOOL-BOY’S JOURNAL. By Edmondo de Amicis.

An Italian classic for boys.


  FOUR MACNICOLS, THE. By William Black.

Contains two stories—“The Four MacNicols,” and “An Adventure in Thule.”
The first tells about four orphan boys who make their living in the
Hebrides, the other of an adventure with French coast pirates.


  HARDING’S LUCK. By E. Nesbit (Mrs. Bland).

The adventures of a lame boy who slipped back in the history of England
several hundred years.


  JAN OF THE WINDMILL. By Juliana Horatia Ewing.

The story of a miller’s son who became a distinguished artist.


  JIMMY BROWN TRYING TO FIND EUROPE. By W. L. Alden.

The further adventures of Jimmy, who leaves home with the intention of
finding his parents, who are in Europe.


  JOHN OF THE WOODS. By Abbie Farwell Brown.

The story of a little boy who ran away from some cruel gypsies by whom
he had been stolen, and who lived in the forest with a good hermit and
all his animal friends, and of how they saved the king’s son.


  MR. STUBBS’S BROTHER. By James Otis Kaler (James Otis).

A sequel to “Toby Tyler.”


  MONI, THE GOAT BOY. By Johanna Spyri.

Stories of Swiss mountain life.


  MORAL PIRATES, THE. By William L. Alden.

The story of a vacation cruise made by four New York boys twelve to
fourteen years of age. They fit out a large rowboat with spritsail and
camping outfit, and cruise up the Harlem and Hudson Rivers to Troy,
thence by canal to Schroon River and the lakes in the Adirondacks, where
they camp for two weeks.


  REFORM OF SHAUN, THE. By Allen French.

Contains two rattling good dog stories.


  ROBIN HOOD: HIS BOOK. By Eva March Tappan.

An attractive prose version, well illustrated.


  STORIES FROM THE CRUSADES. By Janet H. Kelman.

“Told to the Children” Series. A good collection of simply told stories
of the Crusades.


  TEN BOYS FROM HISTORY. By Kate D. Sweetser.

The range from which the ten boys of noted courage are selected is from
David and Jonathan of the Old Testament to the family of President
Lincoln.


  TOBY TYLER; OR, TEN WEEKS WITH A CIRCUS. By James Otis Kaler (James
      Otis).

A wholesome story of circus life. Toby is a great favorite, and Mr.
Stubbs, the monkey, a humorous character.


  TWO ARROWS. By William O. Stoddard.

“Two Arrows” was a brave Indian boy who rendered his white friends such
good service that they determined to give him the advantage of an
education.


  TWO LITTLE CONFEDERATES. By Thomas Nelson Page.

Tells of the adventures of two small boys left on a Virginia plantation
during the Civil War.


  TWO LITTLE SAVAGES. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

Tells about two boys who camped out, living as Indians.


  WILLIAM HENRY AND HIS FRIENDS. By Mrs. A. M. Diaz.

A companion to “The William Henry Letters.”


  WILLIAM HENRY LETTERS, THE. By Mrs. A. M. Diaz.

A series of entertaining letters between a small boy at boarding-school
and his friends at home.




                     _For Boys Twelve to Fourteen_


  “AIRSHIP BOYS” SERIES, THE. By H. L. Sayler.

         1. AIRSHIP BOYS, THE; OR, THE QUEST OF THE AZTEC TREASURE.

         2. AIRSHIP BOYS ADRIFT, THE; OR, SAVED BY AN AEROPLANE.

         3. AIRSHIP BOYS DUE NORTH, THE; OR, BY BALLOON TO THE POLE.

         4. AIRSHIP BOYS IN BARREN LANDS, THE; OR, THE SECRET OF THE
              WHITE ESKIMOS.

         5. AIRSHIP BOYS IN FINANCE, THE; OR, THE FLIGHT OF THE FLYING
              COW.

         6. AIRSHIP BOYS’ OCEAN FLYER, THE; OR, FROM NEW YORK TO LONDON
              IN TWELVE HOURS.

The author of this series possesses technical knowledge of aerial
navigation, and has woven with this knowledge attractive, exciting and
wholesome stories.


  BARNABY LEE. By John Bennett.

A boy’s adventures with pirates in the seventeenth century. Tells about
New Amsterdam in the time of the doughty Peter Stuyvesant.


  BEACH PATROL, THE. By William Drysdale.

A story of the life-saving service.


  BEARS OF BLUE RIVER, THE. By Charles Major.

A story of pioneer life in Indiana.


  BEN COMEE. By Michael J. Canavan.

A tale of Roger’s Rangers. Gives a vivid picture of boy life in
Lexington.


  BIG BROTHER, THE. By George Cary Eggleston.

A story of Indian fighting during the War of 1812.


  BOY LIFE OF NAPOLEON, THE. Adapted by Elbridge S. Brooks from the
      French of Eugenia Foa.

An attractive account of the boy life of the great emperor.


  BOY OF THE FIRST EMPIRE, A. By Elbridge S. Brooks.

A story of Napoleon’s time. The hero is in the personal service of the
emperor.


  BOYHOOD IN NORWAY. By Hjalmar H. Boyesen.

Short stories of boy life in Norway.


  BOY’S FROISSART, THE. Edited by Sidney Lanier.

A good condensed edition of these chronicles of England, France, and
Spain.


  BOY’S LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By Helen Nicolay.

Re-written for young people from the standard work by Nicolay and Hay.


  BOY’S PERCY, THE. Edited by Sidney Lanier.

Old ballads of war, adventure, and love.


  BOY’S TOWN, A. By William Dean Howells.

Describes life in an Ohio town twenty years ago.


  CAPTAIN OF THE SCHOOL TEAM. By John Prescott Earl.

Follows “The School Team in Camp.” Bob Farrar, captain of the school
team, refuses, on what he thinks good grounds, to protest a player on a
rival football team. Bob sticks to his guns, in spite of the clamor
against him, wins the game, and proves he is right.


  CAPTAIN SAM. By George Cary Eggleston.

Boy scouts of 1814. Follows “The Big Brother.”


  CLIFF STIRLING, CAPTAIN OF THE NINE. By Gilbert Patten.

An entertaining baseball story.


  “CRIMSON SWEATER” SERIES, THE. By Ralph Henry Barbour.


    CRIMSON SWEATER, THE.

    TOM, DICK, AND HARRIET.

    HARRY’S ISLAND.

    CAPTAIN CHUB.

The first two volumes deal with school and football; the third tells
about a summer vacation spent on an island in the Hudson River, where
the boys camped, and where Harry (who is a girl) joined them every day;
and in the fourth a house-boat is rented, and with Harriet and her
father as guests, they cruise up and down the Hudson, meeting with
various adventures.


  CROFTON BOYS. By Harriet Martineau.

A story of life at an English school early in the last century.


  DECATUR AND SOMERS. By Molly Elliot Seawell.

A story of the War with Tripoli. Describes the burning of the
_Philadelphia_.


  FEATS ON THE FIORD. By Harriet Martineau.

An active and interesting story the scene of which is Norway in the
eighteenth century. Describes incidentally the manners and customs of
the time.


  FLIGHT OF PONY BAKER, THE. By William Dean Howells.

A “Boy’s Town” story. The adventures are told from the boy’s point of
view.


  FOR THE HONOR OF THE SCHOOL. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

A good story of school athletics.


  FORWARD PASS. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

This is a story of the “new” football—a story of preparatory-school
life. Dan Vinton enters Yardley Hall School, and after many vicissitudes
makes the first team as “sub” end. He gets into the big game of the year
and by means of a clever play of his own, involving the forward pass,
becomes the hero of the hour.


  FURTHER ADVENTURES OF PINKEY PERKINS, THE. By Harold Hammond.

A second book about Pinkey Perkins, a natural, healthy-minded boy in a
country town.


  HALF-BACK, THE. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

A story of school, football, and golf.


  HARDING OF ST. TIMOTHY’S. By Arthur Stanwood Pier.

A boys’ boarding-school story, dealing with the election of the
president of the athletic association at St. Timothy’s.


  HOOSIER SCHOOLBOY, THE. By Edward Eggleston.

A story of school life in Indiana fifty years ago.


  INDIAN BOYHOOD. By Charles A. Eastman.

In this book the author, who is a Sioux Indian, describes his own
boyhood.


  JACK COLLERTON’S ENGINE. By Hollis Godfrey.

An exciting airship story for boys.


  KIDNAPPED CAMPERS, THE. By Flavia A. Canfield.

A good, wholesome story of outdoor life.


  KINGSFORD, QUARTER. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

Particularly a football story. The boys of Riverport study and have lots
of fun, but football practice, football business, and football games are
the important things.


  KNIGHT OF THE WHITE CROSS, A. By G. A. Henty.

A tale of the War of the Roses, and of the siege of Rhodes.


  “LAKERIM” SERIES, THE. By Rupert Hughes.


    LAKERIM ATHLETIC CLUB, THE.

    DOZEN FROM LAKERIM, THE.

    LAKERIM CRUISE, THE.

The Lakerim Athletic Club was composed of twelve fun and sport-loving
boys who played football, baseball, tennis, and golf; who skated,
coasted, canoed, and indulged in outdoor fun generally.


  LIGHT HORSE HARRY’S LEGION. By Everett T. Tomlinson.

A story of adventure, involving fights with marauding Tories on the
Jersey Pine Barrens, and exciting experiences in carrying a letter from
General Washington to General Greene, and at the battle of Eutaw
Springs.


  LITTLE CITIZEN, A. By Mary E. Waller.

The story of a New York newsboy who met with an accident. He was given a
home by a good-hearted Vermont farmer, and became a very useful little
citizen.


  LONE PATROL, THE. By John Finnemore.

A story of boy scouts in Queensland.


  LOST IN THE JUNGLE. By Paul B. du Chaillu.

Hunting trips and adventures in equatorial Africa.


  MARTIN HYDE, THE DUKE’S MESSENGER. By John Masefield.

An adventure story of an English boy’s service for the Duke of Monmouth,
at the close of the seventeenth century.


  MASTER OF THE STRONG HEARTS. By Eldredge S. Brooks.

Tells about Custer’s last fight with Sitting Bull.


  MASTER SKYLARK. By John Bennett.

An excellent story of the times of Shakespeare. He and Queen Elizabeth
are characters in the book.


  “MATE” SERIES, THE. By Kirk Munroe.

            CANOEMATES.

            A story of the Florida reefs and everglades. The travels of
              two boys from Key West, along the reefs to the mainland,
              and through the everglades.

            CAMPMATES.

            A story of the plains. A boy’s adventures with an
              engineering party in the West.

            DORYMATES.

            A tale of the fishing banks off Newfoundland. Gives a
              graphic description of the dangers and hardships of
              deep-sea fishermen.

            RAFTMATES.

            A story of the Mississippi. Tells of an adventurous voyage
              down the Mississippi, from Minnesota to Louisiana.


  MEN OF IRON. By Howard Pyle.

A stirring tale of the time of Henry IV of England.


  NEW BOY, THE. By Arthur Stanwood Pier.

A St. Timothy’s school story, telling how a young Westerner made his way
with the other boys and with his teachers.


  ON THE SCHOOL TEAM. By John Prescott Earl.

A preparatory-school story dealing with football, track athletics, and
wholesome, boyish fun.


  PACIFIC COAST SERIES, THE. By Kirk Munroe.

            FUR SEAL’S TOOTH, THE.

            A story of adventure in Alaska.

            SNOWSHOES AND SLEDGES.

            A sequel to “The Fur Seal’s Tooth.” More adventures in
              Alaska.

            RICK DALE.

            A story of the northwest coast. Adventures among smugglers
              and in logging camps.

            PAINTED DESERT, THE.

            A story of Northern Arizona. A tale of adventure encountered
              in search of a diamond-mine in the desert of Arizona.


  PINKEY PERKINS, JUST A BOY. By Harold Hammond.

The adventures of a mischievous American boy, who is full of fun.


  PRINCE AND PAGE. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

A tale of the last Crusade.


  PRINCE AND THE PAUPER, THE. By Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain).

Through a misadventure a boy, afterwards Edward VI, king of England,
changes places with a street waif.


  RED MUSTANG, THE. By William O. Stoddard.

A story of the Mexican border, which pictures adventures with the Apache
Indians.


  ROBIN HOOD, MERRY ADVENTURES OF. By Howard Pyle.

An especially good rendition of this romantic tale.


  ROBINSON CRUSOE. By Daniel Defoe.

One of the great classics for young people. The usual edition contains
the first part only. Houghton Mifflin Co. issue a more complete book in
two volumes. Two of the best editions for boys are those published by
Harper & Bros. and E. P. Dutton Co. The Cassell Co. and the Bohn Library
editions are complete.


  ROLF IN THE WOODS. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

Rolf Kittering lived with an uncle whose treatment of him was so brutal
that finally he escaped and sought refuge at the camp of a chance
friend, old Quonab, the Indian. His education in woodcraft then became a
matter of existence, and under Quonab’s tutelage Rolf became familiar
with the intimate life of the wild creatures of the great North woods.
An exciting part of the story is where Rolf puts his knowledge into
practice as a daring scout during the War of 1812.


  ROUT OF THE FOREIGNER, THE. By Gulielma Zollinger.

An historical story of England in the early part of the reign of Henry
III. The events include the siege of the Castle of Bedford.


  SCHOOL TEAM IN CAMP, THE. By John Prescott Earl.

A companion to “On the School Team.” In this volume the companions, who
are members of the football team, are camping with their friends in
Maine.


  SIGNAL BOYS, THE. By George Cary Eggleston.

A story of the War of 1812. Follows “Captain Sam.”


  ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S EVE. By G. A. Henty.

A tale of the Huguenot wars.


  STEPHEN. By Eva A. Madden.

A story of the historical Children’s Crusade.


  STORIES OF THE GORILLA COUNTRY. By Paul B. du Chaillu.

Adventures on the West Coast of Africa.


  STORY OF A BAD BOY, THE. By Thomas Bailey Aldrich.

Supposedly the story of the author’s own boyhood days.


  STORY OF VITEAU, THE. By Frank R. Stockton.

A story of adventure in France in the days of chivalry.


  THREE COLONIAL BOYS. By Everett T. Tomlinson.

A story of the times of ’76. Vol. I of the “War of the Revolution”
Series.


  THREE YOUNG CONTINENTALS. By Everett T. Tomlinson.

About the boys who served in the Continental army. Vol. II of the “War
of the Revolution” Series.


  TOM BROWN’S SCHOOL DAYS. By Thomas Hughes.

A splendid picture of school life at Rugby during the head-mastership of
the famous Dr. Arnold.


  TWO BOYS IN THE TROPICS. By Eliza H. Figyelmessy.

A narrative of equatorial South America. It gives glimpses of the
curious birds and beasts of the region and of the little-known people
and their strange manners.


  TWO YOUNG PATRIOTS. By Everett T. Tomlinson.

A story of Burgoyne’s invasion. Vol. IV of the “War of the Revolution”
Series.


  WASHINGTON’S YOUNG AIDS. By Everett T. Tomlinson.

A story of the New Jersey campaign in 1776–1777. Vol. III of the “War of
the Revolution” Series.


  WIDOW O’CALLAGHAN’S BOYS, THE. By Gulielma Zollinger.

The brave struggle for a livelihood of an Irish widow and her seven
sons.


  WINNING HIS “Y.” By Ralph Henry Barbour.

A Yardley Hall story. Friends of “Double Play” and “Forward Pass” are
introduced at the “trying out” for a cross-country team. The story moves
rapidly with their doings through the autumn and winter terms.


  WITH CLIVE IN INDIA. By G. A. Henty.

Tells of the founding of the British Empire in the east.


  WITH CROCKETT AND BOWIE; OR, FIGHTING FOR THE LONE STAR FLAG. By Kirk
      Munroe.

A tale of Texas.


  WON BY THE SWORD. By G. A. Henty.

A story of the Thirty-years’ War.


  YOUNG CARTHAGINIAN, THE. By G. A. Henty.

A tale of the Second Punic War.


  YOUNG CONTINENTALS AT BUNKER HILL, THE. By John T. McIntyre.

Follows “The Young Continentals at Lexington.” There are four young
patriots, one of whom brings valuable information to his leaders at
great risk. The boys are in the battle of Bunker Hill, and also help
Knox to bring from Ticonderoga the big guns that Washington needs.


  YOUNG CONTINENTALS AT LEXINGTON, THE. By John T. McIntyre.

The hero of the story discovers a plot to seize General Washington, and
is very useful to General Warren and other leaders. The climax of the
story is at Lexington.


  “THE YOUNG KENTUCKIANS” SERIES. By Byron A. Dunn.

5 vols. Titles:—


    GENERAL NELSON’S SCOUT.

    ON GENERAL THOMAS’S STAFF.

    BATTLING FOR ATLANTA.

    FROM ATLANTA TO THE SEA.

    RAIDING WITH MORGAN.

These books tell in an interesting and captivating manner the story of
the Civil War from start to finish. The first four volumes deal with the
war from the Northern standpoint, and the fifth volume, “Raiding with
Morgan,” gives the Southern point of view.




                     _For Boys Fourteen to Sixteen_


  ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER, THE. By Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain).

Boy life in Missouri sixty years ago.


  ANNAPOLIS SERIES, THE. By E. L. Beach.

         1. ANNAPOLIS PLEBE, AN.

            Robert Drake, the hero, spends his first year at the United
              States Naval Academy.

         2. ANNAPOLIS YOUNGSTER, AN.

            Cadet Robert Drake’s second year at Annapolis. Includes an
              exciting cruise on a battleship.

         3. ANNAPOLIS SECOND CLASSMAN, AN.

            In his third year, Robert Drake discovers a plot against the
              United States Government, and helps to check it.

         4. ANNAPOLIS FIRST CLASSMAN, AN.

            This concludes the hero’s course at the Naval Academy, from
              which he graduates with honor.

An excellent series, written by a Lieutenant-Commander in the United
States Navy.


  AROUND THE WORLD WITH THE BATTLESHIPS. By Roman J. Miller.

The author, an enlisted man in the United States Navy, accompanied the
battleship fleet on its remarkable voyage around the world, and this
book is the result of his personal observations. Contains illustrations
from photographs.


  BAR B BOYS. By Edwin L. Sabin.

A good, wholesome story of cowboy life.


  BEHIND THE LINE. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

A story of New England college life. The first chapter takes the reader
right into the midst of a big football game. There is another game later
in the story in which the hero is hurt but manages to save the day at
the last moment.


  BISHOP’S SHADOW, THE. By I. T. Thurston.

A story about Bishop Phillips Brooks and a little street gamin of
Boston. One Sunday the boy heard him preach, and from that time on the
Bishop was the great influence in his life.


  BLACK ARROW, THE. By Robert Louis Stevenson.

A story of the Wars of the Roses (England).


  BOOTS AND SADDLES. By Elizabeth Bacon Custer.

Tells about the life in the U. S. Army, and describes many fights with
the Indians.


  BOY LIFE ON THE PRAIRIE. By Hamlin Garland.

Describes graphically the life of a boy on the prairie of the Middle
West.


  BOY WANTED. By Nixon Waterman.

A book of bright, cheerful and inspiring counsel that boys read with
pleasure. It is also of interest to their parents and teachers.


  BOY WITH THE U. S. FORESTERS, THE. By Francis Rolt-Wheeler.

A story full of information and adventure, dealing, in an interesting
manner, with a department of public work much in the public eye. It
tells of the prevention and fighting of forest fires, of the regulation
of the grazing of cattle and sheep, the preservation and disposition of
lumber, the ardor of the pursuit of big game, and the responsible life
of the individual forester.


  BOY WITH THE U. S. SURVEY, THE. By Francis Rolt-Wheeler.

This story describes the adventures of members of the U. S. Geological
Survey, woven into a narrative that both pleases and instructs. It will
show the boys something of the resources and energies of their country
and the needs of conservation.


  CADET DAYS. By Charles King.

Follows the career of a Western boy at West Point, describing customs
and ideals at the military school.


  CAPTAIN OF THE CREW, THE. By Ralph Henry Barbour.

A school story with good character sketch. Follows “For the Honor of the
School.”


  CAPTAIN PHIL. By M. M. Thomas.

A boy’s experiences in the Western army during the Civil War. Almost
every incident of this story is a real experience.


  CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS. By Rudyard Kipling.

The story of a boy who fell overboard from an Atlantic liner and was
rescued by the crew of a fishing schooner. His experiences changed him
from a spoiled boy to a manly one.


  CATTLE RANCH TO COLLEGE. By Russell Doubleday.

A true story of life in the cattle country of Dakota.


  CHRONICLES OF AESCENDUNE, THE. By A. D. Crake.

         1. EDWY THE FAIR; OR, THE FIRST CHRONICLE OF AESCENDUNE.

            A tale of the days of Saint Dunstan.

         2. ALFGAR THE DANE; OR, THE SECOND CHRONICLE OF AESCENDUNE.

            A tale of the Days of Edmund Ironside.

         3. RIVAL HEIRS, THE; OR, THE THIRD AND LAST CHRONICLE OF
              AESCENDUNE.

            A tale of the Norman Conquest.

A very excellent series of books dealing with the history of England
under the Saxon kings. The struggle between the English and the Danish
invaders—a struggle intensified by religious bitterness, and by the
sanguinary nature of the Danish creed—is graphically pictured. And after
the Danish and the English elements were consolidated, and the Danes
converted to Christianity, there came another alloy of foreign blood
through the Norman Conquest, the period which completes these
chronicles.


  COMRADES OF THE TRAILS. By G. E. Theodore Roberts.

The story of a courageous English lad, Dick Ramsey, who, after the death
of his father, crosses the seas and takes up the life of a hunter and
trapper in the Canadian forests. There he has many adventures and
hairbreadth escapes.


  CRUISE OF THE CACHELOT. By Frank T. Bullen.

Tells about deep-sea wonders and mystery. Pictures remarkably the
business of whale-fishing.


  DICK IN THE EVERGLADES. By A. W. Dimock.

A tale of the adventures of two boys hunting and exploring in the
Everglades.


  DICK AMONG THE LUMBER-JACKS. By A. W. Dimock.

A companion to “Dick in the Everglades.” The same boys go to the wilds
of Canada, where they join a surveyor’s party and have many adventures,
hunting, logging, etc.


  EAGLE BADGE; OR, THE SKOKUMS OF THE ALLAGASH. By Holman Francis Day.

A story of the Maine lumber regions. Gives the adventures of an honest,
manly boy who helps bring to justice a gang of counterfeiters.


  FIGHTING WITH FREMONT. By Everett McNeil.

The story of how California was won for the Union by the hardy
frontiersmen of 1846.


  FINN THE WOLFHOUND. By A. J. Dawson.

The adventurous life story of an Irish wolfhound, both in England and in
the antipodes, where he lived and fought valiantly among the creatures
of the wild, whom he forced to regard him as leader. A dog story of much
merit.


  FIRST ACROSS THE CONTINENT. By Noah Brooks.

The story of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.


  FOREST RUNNERS, THE. By Joseph A. Altsheler.

A story of the great war trail in early Kentucky.


  GLENGARRY SCHOOL DAYS. By Charles William Gordon (Ralph Connor).

A story of country life in a backwoods school in Canada.


  GREAT AEROPLANE, THE. By F. S. Brereton.

A tale of adventure in mid-air. The _Essex Ghost_ is a flying vessel of
huge proportions, and exciting incidents follow one another swiftly.


  HEAD COACH, THE. By Ralph D. Paine.

A book for the football enthusiast. With many exciting incidents, the
story tells how the coach won out.


  HECTOR, MY DOG; HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY. By Egerton R. Young.

Hector, the dog, is the supposed narrator. The scene is the Northland,
and the studies in dog nature are very interesting. He tells of his race
with the gray wolf, and of his trials in a land where all wood and hay
were dragged home by the dogs.


  HORSEMEN OF THE PLAINS, THE. By Joseph A. Altsheler.

A story of hunting and exploring in the years when the Rocky Mountains
were the Far West, and the regions around a battleground between red and
white men.


  HUCKLEBERRY FINN. By Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain).

A good companion book to “The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.”


  HUGH GWYETH; A ROUNDHEAD CAVALIER. By Beulah Marie Dix.

The story of a plucky English boy who fought for the king in the great
civil war.


  IN LINCOLN GREEN. By Edward Gilliat.

A story of Robin Hood.


  IN TEXAS WITH DAVY CROCKETT. By Everett McNeil.

A story of the Texas War of Independence.


  IVANHOE. By Sir Walter Scott.

Portrays the time of the Saxons and Normans in England during the reign
of Richard I.


  “JACK” SERIES, THE. By George Bird Grinnell.


    JACK, THE YOUNG RANCHMAN.

      A boy’s adventures in the Rockies.


    JACK AMONG THE INDIANS.

      Follows “Jack, the Young Ranchman.”


    JACK IN THE ROCKIES.

      Adventures with a pack train in Yellowstone Park. Follows “Jack
Among the Indians.”


    JACK, THE YOUNG CANOEMAN.

      The story of a canoe trip along the coast of British Columbia.


    JACK, THE YOUNG EXPLORER.

      A story of life among the Blackfoot Indians.


    JACK, THE YOUNG TRAPPER.

      Tells of fur hunting in the Rocky Mountains.


  JACK BALLISTER’S FORTUNES. By Howard Pyle.

The adventures of a boy who was kidnapped and sent to the Virginia
plantations. The noted pirate Blackbeard is a prominent character in the
story.


  JEB HUTTON. By James B. Connolly.

The story of a Georgia boy employed on a government dredge. A fine
character delineation.


  JUNIOR IN THE LINE, A. By T. Truxton Hare.

A companion to “A Sophomore Half-Back.” Bob Walters, in his Junior year
at college, succeeds by sheer force of character and common sense.


  LAND OF THE LONG NIGHT, THE. By Paul B. du Chaillu.

The story of a winter journey by reindeer sledge and skis to Northern
Scandinavia.


  LEATHERSTOCKING TALES, THE. By James Fenimore Cooper.

         1. DEERSLAYER, THE.

            A tale of warfare between the white settlers in New York and
              the Iroquois Indians.

         2. LAST OF THE MOHICANS, THE.

            A splendid Indian story. Depicts the life of the
              frontiersman at the time of the French and Indian War.

         3. PATHFINDER, THE.

            A story of the French and Indian War. The scene is the
              vicinity of Lake Ontario.

         4. PIONEERS, THE.

            A story of pioneer life on the banks of Lake Otsego.

         5. PRAIRIE, THE.

            Shows Leatherstocking, in his old age, living on the Western
              prairies.


  LITTLE KING, THE. By Charles Major.

An attractive study of the childhood of Louis XIV. The author has woven
a story of much interest around his early life, with its many
adventures. Many powerful historical characters figure in the narrative.


  LONG TRAIL, THE. By Hamlin Garland.

The adventures of a boy who went to the Klondike in 1898.


  LOYAL TRAITOR, A. By James Barnes.

A story of the War of 1812. The adventures of a boy who ships on a
privateer at the beginning of the war.


  MAKING THE FRESHMAN TEAM. By T. Truxton Hare.

College athletics form the chief theme of the story. There are
interesting descriptions of training, track meets, football games, etc.


  MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY, THE. By Edward Everett Hale.

The story of an American officer who wished never to hear of the United
States again, and whose wish was fulfilled by order of the court.


  NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. By Charles Dickens.

Nicholas is the assistant to Mr. Wackford Squeers, an ignorant, sordid,
and brutal Yorkshire schoolmaster. Contains much humor as well as
pathos.


  OLIVER TWIST. By Charles Dickens.

Tells how a poor-house waif was trained in London’s schools of crime.


  ON THE TRAIL OF WASHINGTON. By Frederick Trevor Hill.

The story of George Washington, first as a child, then in his surveying
expeditions, and later fighting with and commanding troops in the
American Revolution.


  OREGON TRAIL, THE. By Francis Parkman.

Vivid description of the life of the Indians of the plains in the days
of our forefathers.


  PICKETT’S GAP. By Homer Greene.

The story of a railroad fight for the control of a mountain pass.


  PRODIGIOUS HICKEY, THE. By Owen Johnson.

The first of the Lawrenceville School stories. Precedes “The Varmint.”
(Originally published under the title of “The Eternal Boy.”)


  RANGE AND TRAIL; OR, THE BAR B’S GREAT DRIVE. By Edwin L. Sabin.

A companion to “Bar B Boys,” continuing the story of cowboy life. Gives
a graphic description of mid-winter among the foot-hills.


  RECOLLECTIONS OF A DRUMMER-BOY, THE. By Henry M. Kieffer.

Concerned chiefly with the Army of the Potomac during the Civil War.


  RIFLEMEN OF THE OHIO, THE. By Joseph A. Altsheler.

A book full of thrilling incidents, Indian customs in war and peace, and
the graphic narration of decisive battles fought along the Ohio.


  ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. By Rolf Boldrewood.

A story of life and adventure in the bush and in the goldfields of
Australia.


  SAILING ALONE AROUND THE WORLD. By Joshua Slocum.

The personal narrative of a remarkable ocean voyage, in the course of
which the author circumnavigated the globe in a forty-foot sloop.


  SENIOR QUARTER-BACK, A. By T. Truxton Hare.

Follows “A Junior in the Line.” Bob Walters, captain of the Varsity
team, finds it necessary to discipline his friend Trelawney, a veteran
player. The college sympathizes with Trelawney, but Bob proves he is
right, and the team wins the great game of the year.


  SHORT-STOP, THE. By Zane Grey.

A real baseball story, written by a man who was once a professional
player. It is the story of a young man upon whom the support of his
mother and a crippled brother devolves, and he turns to that in which he
is proficient as a profession.


  SON OF LIGHT-HORSE HARRY, THE. By James Barnes.

The story opens when General Robert E. Lee was a small boy. It follows
him from his boyhood through West Point and the War with Mexico.


  SOPHOMORE HALF-BACK, A. By T. Truxton Hare.

A companion to “Making the Freshman Team.” Bob Walters, a sophomore, is
prominent in the various features of college life, and an escapade he
has, with a friend, causes heavy damage, but they earn the money, pay
the bill, and learn a valuable lesson.


  STORIES FOR BOYS. By Richard Harding Davis.

Contains seven excellent short stories.


  TALISMAN, THE. By Sir Walter Scott.

A story of the Third Crusade. Richard the Lion-Hearted and Saladin are
two of the principal characters.


  TENNESSEE SHAD, THE. By Owen Johnson.

More Lawrenceville Stories about Doc Macnooder, Finnegan, The Tennessee
Shad, and the rest.


  TOM BROWN AT OXFORD. By Thomas Hughes.

A sequel to “Tom Brown’s School Days.”


  TREASURE ISLAND. By Robert Louis Stevenson.

The best (and most popular) pirate story for boys published.


  TRUTHS—TALKS WITH A BOY CONCERNING HIMSELF. By E. B. Lowry, M.D.

This book presents in concise form the instruction concerning his
physical nature which should be given to every boy approaching manhood.
The origin and development of life is adequately discussed with
appropriate taste and scientific accuracy.


  “UNITED STATES MIDSHIPMAN” SERIES, THE. By Yates Stirling, Jr.

         1. UNITED STATES MIDSHIPMAN AFLOAT, A.

            Tells how two recent Annapolis graduates become involved
              in a South American revolution, are imprisoned, help to
              defend an intrenchment and fight a cruiser.

         2. UNITED STATES MIDSHIPMAN IN CHINA, A.

            The two midshipmen on a gun-boat help to thwart an attack on
              an American mission during the Boxer rebellion. Contains
              an exciting plot.

         3. UNITED STATES MIDSHIPMAN IN THE PHILIPPINES, A.

            Philip Perry and Sidney Monroe, the two midshipmen, take
              part in some stirring fights with the insurgents. The
              story gives a description of Philippine character and
              warfare.


  VARMINT, THE. By Owen Johnson.

A remarkably good prep.-school story. A companion book to “The
Prodigious Hickey.”


  “WEST POINT” SERIES, THE. By Capt. Paul B. Malone.

There are four volumes in this series, which take the reader through the
four years’ course required by this famous school. The titles are as
follows:—

         1. WINNING HIS WAY TO WEST POINT.

            An interesting story of a young recruit in the Philippines.

         2. A PLEBE AT WEST POINT.

            Douglas Atwell won his cadetship through bravery in the
              Philippines, and now appears in his first year at West
              Point.

         3. A WEST POINT YEARLING.

            Cadet Corporal Douglas Atwell succeeds in breaking up hazing
              at West Point. He figures prominently in the army and navy
              football game.

         4. A WEST POINT CADET.

            In his last year Douglas Atwell becomes Cadet Captain,
              leads a superb cavalry charge, saves a child’s life, and
              graduates.


  WHEN A COBBLER RULED THE KING. By Augusta H. Seaman.

The time of the story is that of the French Revolution, and the chief
historical character the mysterious Lost Dauphin, the son of the
ill-fated Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. The real hero of the tale is
Jean Mettot, who seeks to free the little Dauphin from his imprisonment,
and in his efforts has many startling adventures and narrow escapes. The
then unknown Napoleon Bonaparte is introduced in the story.


  WHITE COMPANY, THE. By A. Conan Doyle.

A story of the wars of the Black Prince.


  WIRELESS STATION AT SILVER FOX FARM, THE. By James Otis (James Otis
      Kaler).

The scene of the story is laid on the Maine coast, where Paul Simpson’s
father is carrying on original plans for raising Russian or silver foxes
for their pelts. Paul and a friend install a wireless telegraph system
for their own use, and incidentally the reader learns a lot about
wireless telegraphy.


  WITH SULLY INTO THE SIOUX LAND. By Joseph Mills Hanson.

The story of the campaign of General Sully against the Dakota Indians in
1864. The book begins with an Indian uprising in Minnesota, tells of the
flight of the family, of the boy hero, the father’s death, and the
capture of the little brother by the Indians.


  WOLF HUNTERS, THE. By James Oliver Curwood.

A tale of adventure in the Canadian wilderness.


  YEAR IN A YAWL, A. By Russell Doubleday.

Tells of a trip by boys from St. Joseph, Mich., down the Mississippi,
through the Gulf of Mexico, up the Atlantic coast and back through the
canals.


  YOUNG FORESTER, THE. By Zane Grey.

An adventure story of the Southwest. The hero is an Eastern boy with a
love for trees and outdoor life.


  YOUNG PITCHER, THE. By Zane Grey.

Ken Ward, whose experiences in the West were told in “The Young
Forester,” now enters the university, where, as a freshman, he is
snubbed and bullied. His prowess at baseball, however, is soon noted,
and, after some disheartening experiences, he pitches his nine to
triumph and himself to popularity.


  YOUNG RAILROADERS, THE. By F. Lovell Coombs.

The experiences of two young railroad employees, who, by keeping their
heads in times of trouble and using their wits, save trains, foil
burglars, and have many unusual adventures.




                     _For Boys Sixteen to Eighteen_


  ARTHUR BONNICASTLE. By Josiah G. Holland.

A story of American college life.


  AZTEC TREASURE-HOUSE, THE. By Thomas A. Janvier.

A stirring story of the discovery in the mountains of an Aztec city
founded a thousand years ago.


  BETWEEN THE LINES. By Charles King.

A Civil War story. Contains a good description of the battle of
Gettysburg.


  BLACK ROCK. By Charles William Gordon (Ralph Connor).

The story of a missionary in the Western mines and lumber camps.


  CAMPAIGNING WITH CROOK, AND STORIES OF ARMY LIFE. By Charles King.

Tells of the Sioux campaign of 1876 with Brig. Gen. George Crook, and
contains in addition three short stories.


  DOWN TO THE SEA. By Wilfred T. Grenfell.

Contains stories of things seen and done, and of the men he has known,
as Dr. Grenfell has cruised along the Labrador coast.


  FARTHEST NORTH. By Fridtjof Nansen.

The record of a voyage of exploration of the ship _Fram_ 1893–1896.
Aside from the scientific aspect, there are thrilling adventures and
magnificent sport.


  HEREWARD, THE WAKE. By Charles Kingsley.

The best description of Hereward the outlaw and his gallant deed.


  HORSES NINE. By Sewell Ford.

A good collection of horse stories.


  IN THE SARGASSO SEA. By Thomas A. Janvier.

The story of a young engineer, on his way from New York to Africa, who
is thrown overboard in a fight with the skipper. He is rescued by a
steamer which is afterwards wrecked on the edge of the Sargasso Sea. The
hero has many amazing adventures among the derelicts of that ocean
graveyard.


  IVAR THE VIKING. By Paul B. du Chaillu.

A romantic history, based upon authentic facts of the third and fourth
centuries.


  KIM. By Rudyard Kipling.

The adventures of an East Indian boy. Gives a splendid picture of Hindu
life.


  LURE OF THE LABRADOR WILD. By Dillon Wallace.

The story of the exploring expedition conducted by Leonidas Hubbard, Jr.


  MICAH CLARKE. By A. Conan Doyle.

A story of the Duke of Monmouth’s rebellion.


  PICCIOLA. By Joseph Xavier B. Santaine.

A story of Napoleon’s time; the chief character is a young nobleman, a
political prisoner, whose regeneration is effected by his observation of
a plant growing in his courtyard.


  QUENTIN DURWARD. By Sir Walter Scott.

A tale of the time of Louis XI and of Charles the Bold of Burgundy.


  ROB ROY. By Sir Walter Scott.

A story of the rebellion of 1715 and the part taken in it by the clan
MacGregor, the chieftain of which was Rob Roy.


  RULES OF THE GAME, THE. By Stewart Edward White.

A virile story of outdoor adventure.


  SILAS MARNER. By George Eliot.

The story of a linen weaver who is a miser.


  STORY OF THE REVOLUTION. By Henry Cabot Lodge.

A substantial and scholarly history of the American Revolution. Contains
many illustrations by Howard Pyle and others.


  TENTING ON THE PLAINS. By Elizabeth Bacon Custer.

Tells of garrison and camp life with General Custer.


  THERE SHE BLOWS! By James Cooper Wheeler.

A rattling good whaling yarn.


  THREE GRINGOES IN VENEZUELA AND CENTRAL AMERICA. By Richard Harding
      Davis.

An interesting book of travel containing much information about the
daily life and activities of South and Central American cities.


  TWO YEARS BEFORE THE MAST. By Richard Henry Dana, Jr.

Tells of a voyage around the Horn and to California in 1837.


  TYPEE. By Herman Melville.

A story of life in the South Seas, being the experiences of two American
sailors on the Marquesas Islands.


  VAGABOND JOURNEY AROUND THE WORLD, A. By Harry A. Franck.

The day-by-day record of a young university man’s experiences and
adventures as he circled the globe, without money save as he earned it
by the way. He was a tramp with tramps in many cities of Europe, Egypt,
India, and Japan. His pictures of native life in strange corners of the
world stand out vividly.


  WESTWARD HO! By Charles Kingsley.

A splendid story of exploration and adventure in the sixteenth century.


  WOLF THE STORM LEADER. By Frank Caldwell.

The true story of a wolf, who was trapped, tamed, and used for team work
in Alaska.


  ZACHARY PHIPS. By Edwin L. Bynner.

A story of Aaron Burr’s treason, the War of 1812, and the Seminole War.




                  _For Boys and Girls Three to Eight_


                       (INCLUDING PICTURE BOOKS)


  A APPLE PIE. Illustrated by Kate Greenaway. 3 to 5.


  ARABELLA AND ARAMINTA. By Gertrude Smith. 4 to 6.

The doings and sayings of little twin sisters, written by one who has
made a study of child life.


  BABES AND BIRDS. By Jessie Pope.

A companion book to “Babes and Blossoms.” The verses leave the last word
blank, so that the child must guess the name of the bird. 4 to 8.


  BABES AND BLOSSOMS. By Walter Copeland.

There are fourty-four babes, each of which is associated with a flower,
and the verse is so arranged that the name of the flower has to be
guessed from the key given by the rhyme. 5 to 8.


  BABY DAYS. Ed. by Mary Mapes Dodge.

Stories and rhymes selected from St. Nicholas. 4 to 7.


  BED-TIME BOOK, THE. By Helen Hay Whitney.

Pretty verses illustrated by Jessie Willcox Smith. 4 to 7.


  BIRD JINGLES. By Edward B. Clark.

The birds selected are those whose traits or names lend themselves
readily to the giving of some point to the descriptive verse. Well
illustrated. 4 to 7.


  BLOWING AWAY OF MR. BUSHY TAIL, THE. By Edith M. Davidson.

Tells of the adventures of a family of red squirrels, caught in a fierce
blizzard. 6 to 8.


  BOY BLUE AND HIS FRIENDS. By Etta A. Blaisdell and Mary Frances
      Blaisdell.

Easy reading for children, leading them to exercise themselves in the
art of reading. 6 to 8.


  BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES IN CAMP, THE. By Edith B. Davidson.

Describes the adventures of a family of bunnies and their friends while
camping out for the summer. 5 to 7.


  BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES IN EUROPE, THE. By Edith B. Davidson.

The Bunnikins-Bunnies have a very amusing trip abroad. 5 to 7.


  BUNNY STORIES. By John Howard Jewett (Hannah Howard).

The amusing adventures of four lively rabbits. 5 to 8.


  CALDECOTT’S (RANDOLPH) PICTURE BOOKS.

There are 16 titles, bound in paper, printed in colors by Edmund Evans.
They are also made in 4 vols. cloth, 4 titles to the volume, and in 2
vols. cloth, 8 titles to the volume. The titles are as follows: “John
Gilpin”; “House that Jack Built”; “Babes in the Wood”; “Elegy on a Mad
Dog”; “Three Jovial Huntsmen”; “Sing a Song of Sixpence”; “Queen of
Hearts”; “The Farmer’s Boy”; “The Milkmaid”; “Hey Diddle Diddle”; “A
Frog he Would a-Wooing Go”; “The Fox Jumps over the Parson’s Gate”;
“Come, Lassies and Lads”; “Ride a Cock Horse”; “Mrs. Mary Blaize”; “The
Great Panjandrum Himself.”

Especially good; far superior to the usual picture book. 3 to 8.


  CHILD’S HANSEL AND GRETEL, THE.

A new and more than usually complete version of this story. 4 to 8.


  CHILD’S RIP VAN WINKLE, THE. Adapted from Washington Irving.

A good adaptation for children of this classic. 7 to 10.


  CHINESE MOTHER GOOSE RHYMES. Translated by Isaac T. Headland.

Nursery rhymes illustrated in a way that will stimulate the child’s
interest in the little people of the East. 6 to 8.


  CRANE’S (WALTER) PICTURE BOOKS.

There are nine bound volumes, illustrated in colors, each containing a
group of three well-known fairy tales and nursery stories and rhymes,
which are also published separately in paper covers. The titles of the
bound picture books are: “Red Riding Hood”; “Goody Two Shoes”; “Beauty
and the Beast”; “This Little Pig’s”; “Mother Hubbard”; “Bluebeard”;
“Cinderella”; “Sing a Song of Sixpence”; “Buckle my Shoe.” 3 to 7.


  DAY IN A CHILD’S LIFE. Illustrated by Kate Greenaway.

Songs for children, with music by Myles B. Foster. 5 to 7.


  FARM BOOK, THE. By E. Boyd Smith.

Tells about the visit to Uncle John at his farm by Bob and Betty. The
colored illustrations by the author are very good. 5 to 8.


  FATHER GOOSE. By L. Frank Baum.

A popular collection of rhymes for children. The illustrations in color
by W. W. Denslow are very droll. 3 to 6.

These rhymes have also been attractively set to music by Alberta N.
Hall. 5 to 8.


  FINGER PLAYS. By Emilie Poulsson.

Illustrated exercises for the nursery and kindergarten. 3 to 6.


  FIRELIGHT STORIES. By C. S. Bailey and C. L. Brown.

Folk tales re-told for kindergarten, school, and home. 5 to 8.


  FIVE MINUTE STORIES. By Laura E. Richards.

Excellent short stories and verses for children. 5 to 8.


  FOR THE CHILDREN’S HOUR. By C. S. Bailey and C. M. Brown.

Selections for the use of story-tellers. 5 to 8.


  GOLDEN GOOSE BOOK. Selected and Illustrated by L. Leslie Brooke.

Contains “The Three Little Pigs,” “Tom Thumb,” “The Three Bears,” and
“The Golden Goose.” The illustrations are exceedingly good. 6 to 8.


  GOOPS, AND HOW TO BE THEM. By Frank Gelett Burgess.

Gives advice to children on morals, manners, cleanliness, and generosity
in amusing verse. 5 to 8.


  GUESS. By L. J. Bridgman.


  GUESS AGAIN. By L. J. Bridgman.

Riddles in rhymes. The answers are given by means of illustrations. 6 to
8.


  IN STORY LAND. By Elizabeth Harrison.

Contains stories to read to children. 4 to 8.


  IN THE CHILD’S WORLD. Edited by Emilie Poulsson.

A splendid collection of stories for those who have to tell them. 5 to
8.


  INDIAN BOYS AND GIRLS. By Alice Calhoun Haines.

The pictures portray Indian children in characteristic occupations, and
the verses and stories explain the pictures. 6 to 8.


  INDIAN CHILD LIFE. By E. W. Deming.

Contains eighteen stories about Indian child life. Illustrated by the
author. 6 to 9.


  JOHNNY CROW’S GARDEN. By L. Leslie Brooke.

Nursery rhymes with fine humorous illustrations. 4 to 6.


  JOHNNY CROW’S PARTY. By L. Leslie Brooke.

A book of animal pictures. Charming illustrations. 4 to 6.


  KIDDIE LAND. By Margaret G. Hays.

A book of verses very humorously illustrated by Grace G. Wiederseim. 4
to 6.


  KINDERGARTEN STORY BOOK, THE. By Jane L. Hoxie.

An excellent collection of stories for mothers or teachers to tell to
children. 4 to 7.


  LITTLE MOTHER AND GEORGIE. By Gertrude Smith.

The good times Grandpa and little Florence had playing together. Grandpa
pretends to be a little boy named Georgie, with Florence for his mother.
4 to 6.


  LITTLE STORIES ABOUT LITTLE ANIMALS FOR LITTLE CHILDREN. By Susan
      Holton.

Ten short and easy animal stories written by a professional teller of
stories to children. 5 to 8.


  MARIGOLD GARDEN. Pictures and rhymes illustrated by Kate Greenaway. 5
      to 7.


  MORE BUNNY STORIES. By John Howard Jewett (Hannah Howard).

A companion to “Bunny Stories.” 5 to 8.


  MORE GOOPS, AND HOW NOT TO BE THEM. By Frank Gelett Burgess. 5 to 8.


  MORE MOTHER STORIES. By Maud Lindsay.

Stories to tell to children. 4 to 7.


  MOTHER GOOSE. Illustrated by Kate Greenaway. 3 to 5.


  MOTHER GOOSE’S RHYMES AND MELODIES.

Editions recommended are those edited by Walter Jerrems (Dodge Pub.
Co.), W. A. Wheeler (Houghton Mifflin Co.), Edward Everett Hale, a
reproduction of the first Boston edition (Lothrop, Lee & Shepard) and
Mrs. Weedon (E. P. Dutton & Co.). 2 to 4.


  MOTHER GOOSE VILLAGE. By Madge L. Bigham.

Tells about “Polly Flinder’s Apron,” “Tommy Grace’s Party,” “Simple
Simon’s Silken Coat,” “Little Miss Muffet’s Valentine,” and
“Schoolmaster’s Pie.” 4 to 7.


  MOTHER STORIES. By Maud Lindsay.

Stories to tell to children. 4 to 7.


  MUFFIN SHOP, THE. By Louise Ayres Garnett.

A dainty verse-book recounting the delights of the Muffin Man and his
shop. Jack and Jill, Miss Muffet, Jack and Mrs. Spratt, and other
characters from Mother Goose are introduced. 4 to 6.


  NEW BABY WORLD, THE. Edited by Mary Mapes Dodge.

Contains stories and verses. Well illustrated. 4 to 7.


  OLD MOTHER WEST WIND. By Thornton W. Burgess.

Stories for children in which the winds and various small animals are
personified, but retain their animal characteristics. 6 to 8.


  ORCHARD-LAND. By Robert W. Chambers.

Tells about the woodchuck, caterpillar, wasp, chipmunk, etc., all of
whom are the friends of the little hero and heroine. 6 to 8.


  OUTDOOR-LAND. By Robert W. Chambers.

Tells how little Peter and Geraldine made the acquaintance of the
butterfly, the brook trout, the robin, and the spider, etc. 6 to 8.


  PETER PAN PICTURE BOOK, THE. By Alice B. Woodward and Daniel O’Connor.
      6 to 8.

The text (somewhat changed from the original story) is beautifully
illustrated by Alice B. Woodward.


  PETER RABBIT SERIES, THE. By Beatrix Potter. 4 to 6.

         1. TALE OF PETER RABBIT, THE.

            Peter Rabbit and Mr. McGregor’s Garden.

         2. TALE OF SQUIRREL NUTKIN, THE.

            In which the Squirrel appears.

         3. TAILOR OF GLOUCESTER, THE.

            Who was helped by the little brown mice.

         4. TALE OF BENJAMIN BUNNY, THE.

            Peter Rabbit’s cousin.

         5. TALE OF TWO BAD MICE, THE.

            About Tom Thumb and Hunca Munca, his wife.

         6. TALE OF MRS. TIGGY-WINKLE, THE.

            The Hedgehog who washed and ironed.

         7. TALE OF MR. JEREMY FISHER, THE.

            The frog who lived among the buttercups at the edge of the
              pond.

         8. TALE OF TOM KITTEN, THE.

            The kitten who was always getting into trouble.

         9. TALE OF JEMIMA PUDDLE-DUCK, THE.

            Who was annoyed because the farmer’s wife would not let her
              hatch her own eggs.

        10. TALE OF THE FLOPSY BUNNIES, THE.

        11. TALE OF MRS. TITTLEMOUSE, THE.

            A wood-mouse who lived in a mossy bank under a hedge.


  RACKETTY-PACKETTY HOUSE, THE. By Frances Hodgson Burnett.

A story of some old-fashioned dolls in a discarded doll house. 6 to 8.


  RED FOLK AND WILD FOLK. By E. W. Deming.

Stories taken from the old Indian folk lore. The pictures show the
little Indian people in their forest homes, with their animal
playfellows. 6 to 8.


  RHYMING RING, THE. By Louise A. Garnett.

A book of pretty rhymes very well illustrated. 4 to 6.


  ROGGIE AND REGGIE STORIES, THE. By Gertrude Smith.

Stories that will aid mothers in entertaining very young children. 4 to
6.


  SANDMAN: HIS FARM STORIES, THE. By William J. Hopkins.

Tales of farm-life for little children. 4 to 7.


  SANDMAN: MORE FARM STORIES, THE. By William J. Hopkins.

More stories of farm-life for little children. 4 to 7.


  SLEEPY-TIME STORIES. By Maud Ballington Booth.

A collection of very pretty stories about birds, animals and flowers. 4
to 7.


  SNOW BABY, THE. By Josephine Peary.

The story of the birth and infancy of Marie Ahnighito Peary in the
country near the North Pole. 6 to 9.


  SNOWLAND FOLK. By Robert E. Peary.

A collection of stories about the land of eternal snow and ice written
by the explorer for his little daughter. 6 to 9.


  STORIES TO TELL TO CHILDREN. Edited by Sara Cone Bryant.

Fifty-one stories for young children, with suggestions for telling them.
5 to 8.


  STORY HOUR, THE. Edited by Kate Douglas Wiggin and Nora Archibald
      Smith.

Stories adapted and arranged for mothers and teachers to tell to little
children. 5 to 8.


  STORY OF LITTLE BLACK SAMBO, THE. By Helen Bannerman.

A popular tiger story for little children. The illustrations are very
helpful in making the story understood. 4 to 6.


  SUNBONNET BABIES’ BOOK. By Eulalie Osgood Grover.

Molly and May, two Sunbonnet babies, see and do things that are natural
to little children. The illustrations are in four colors by Bertha L.
Corbett, and are very attractive. 4 to 6.


  TALES COME TRUE, AND TALES MADE TRUE. By Margaret Coulson Walker.

A book of nature dolls for parents and kindergartners. 4 to 8.


  THREE BLIND MICE, YE. Verses by John W. Iverney.

The complete version. Illustrated in colors. 3 to 6.


  THROUGH THE FARMYARD GATE. By Emilie Poulsson.

Easy rhymes and stories for little children. 3 to 6.


  UNDER THE WINDOW. Illustrated by Kate Greenaway. 3 to 5.


  WHEN MOLLY WAS SIX. By Eliza Orne White.

Tells about a little girl and the good times she had with her dolls and
cats. 6 to 8.




                    _For Boys and Girls Six to Ten_


  ADMIRAL’S CARAVAN, THE. By Charles E. Carryl.

A wonderland of Noah’s Ark animals and wooden images come to life. 8 to
10.


  ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE, THE. By Mrs. Craik (Miss Mulock). 8 to 10.

Tells about children who have a brownie for a playmate.


  ADVENTURES OF A DOLL, THE. By Nora Archibald Smith.

The story of a little Scotch girl, her doll, and her small dog. 6 to 8.


  ÆSOP, FABLES OF, THE. Editions edited by Joseph Jacobs, and
      illustrated by Percy J. Billinghurst. 6 to 12.


  BEAUTIFUL JOE. By Marshall Saunders.

A fine dog story for children. 8 to 10.


  “BED-TIME STORIES” SERIES. By Louise Chandler Moulton.

         1. BED-TIME STORIES.

         2. MORE BED-TIME STORIES.

         3. NEW BED-TIME STORIES.

         4. FIRELIGHT STORIES.

         5. STORIES TOLD AT TWILIGHT.

            An excellent set of stories to read to children. 6 to 8.


  BLACK BEAUTY. By Anna Sewell.

The most popular horse story in print. 8 to 10.


  CALDWELL’S BOYS AND GIRLS AT HOME.

An illustrated annual, the contributors to which are well-known authors
and artists. 7 to 10.


  CAT STORIES. By Helen Hunt Jackson.

Contains “Letters from a Cat”; “Mammy Tickleback”; and “Hunter Cats of
Connorloa.” 6 to 8.


  CHILDREN’S BOOK, THE. Edited by Horace E. Scudder.

One of the most comprehensive collections of stories, verses, and fables
for children published. 6 to 10.


  CHILD’S CHRISTMAS, THE. By Evelyn Sharp.

A good collection of short Christmas stories. 6 to 8.


  CHINESE BOY AND GIRL, THE. Translated by Isaac T. Headland.

Nursery rhymes, finger plays, games, and folk tales of Chinese children.
8 to 10.


  CHRISTMAS EVERY DAY. By William Dean Howells.

Tells what happens to a little child whose wish to have Christmas every
day is fulfilled. 8 to 10.


  CONDUCT STORIES. By F. J. Gould.

Moral tales that may be read by and to children with pleasure and
profit. 8 to 12.


  DAVY AND THE GOBLIN. By Charles E. Carryl.

The fantastic adventures of a little boy who didn’t believe in fairies
and goblins. 8 to 10.


  FLIPWING THE SPY. By Lily F. Wesselhoeft.

A bird story for children. 7 to 9.


  GLUE SERIES, THE. By George A. and Clara A. Williams.


    GAMES THAT GLUE PLAYED, THE.

    FARM THAT GLUE MADE, THE.

    RAILWAY THAT GLUE BUILT, THE.

    FUN THAT GLUE MADE, THE.

    STORIES THAT GLUE TOLD, THE.

    HOUSE THAT GLUE BUILT, THE.

    SHIPS THAT GLUE BUILT, THE.

    CHILDREN’S STORE, THE.

The Glue books, which contain various things to be cut out and pasted on
appropriate backgrounds, are popular with children. They give them
something pleasant to do, and at the same time, unconsciously educate
their fingers and eyes. 6 to 10.


  GOLDEN WINDOWS. By Laura E. Richards.

A fine collection of fables which will appeal to grown-ups as well as to
the young. 6 to 10.


  HOLLOW TREE DEEP WOODS BOOK, THE. By Albert Bigelow Paine.

The adventures of the Hollow Tree folk, Mr. Coon, Mr. Possum, Mr. Crow,
Mr. Rabbit, and their friends in the deep woods. Amusingly told; not in
dialect. 6 to 10.


  HOLLOW TREE AND SNOWED-IN BOOK, THE. By Albert Bigelow Paine.

Follows “The Hollow Tree and Deep Woods Book.” There is a new “Little
Lady” and a new “Mr. Dog,” but otherwise it has the same characters and
the same place. 6 to 10.


  JUST SO STORIES. By Rudyard Kipling.

Tells how the camel got its hump and how the elephant got its trunk,
etc. 7 to 10.


  LISTEN TO ME STORIES. By Alicia Aspinwall.

These are not strictly fairy stories, but possess many of the attributes
of that class, the imagined and the actual being closely woven together.
8 to 10.


  LITTLE MR. THIMBLEFINGER. By Joel Chandler Harris.

Fantastic negro and animal stories. 8 to 10.


  LULU’S LIBRARY. By Louisa M. Alcott.

A mixture of fairy tales and animal stories and adventures of various
children. 8 to 10.


  MR. RABBIT AT HOME. By Joel Chandler Harris.

Stories about animals. A companion book to “Little Mr. Thimblefinger.” 8
to 10.


  MOUNTAIN-LAND. By Robert W. Chambers.

Adventures in the wild woods with animal friends. 6 to 8.


  OLD ROUGH THE MISER. By Lily F. Wesselhoeft.

The lively story of an old water rat. 7 to 9.


  “OZ” BOOKS, THE. By L. Frank Baum. 7 to 10.


    WIZARD OF OZ, THE.

      Dorothy, the heroine, lived with her uncle and aunt on a farm in
      Kansas. One day a cyclone carried the house, with Dorothy and the
      dog Toto in it, many miles away to the land of Oz. They alight on
      the wicked witch of the East, killing her. The Munchkins, the
      Scarecrow, The Great Oz, etc., are introduced, and Dorothy’s
      adventures are in full swing.


    MARVELLOUS LAND OF OZ, THE.

      Tells about the adventures of the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, Jack
      Pumpkinhead, the Animated Saw-Horse, the Highly Magnified
      Woggle-Bug, the Gump, etc.


    OZMA OF OZ.

      Tells more about Dorothy, the Tin Woodman, the Cowardly Lion, and
      introduces Tiktok, The Yellow Hen, The Nome King, and The Hungry
      Tiger.


    DOROTHY AND THE WIZARD IN OZ.

      Dorothy and a little boy companion, Zeb, and Jim, the Cab Horse,
      are swallowed up in an earthquake, and reach a strange vegetable
      land, whence, by the aid of the Wizard of Oz, they escape to the
      Land of Oz. The new characters are Eureka, Dorothy’s pink kitten,
      and The Nine Tiny Piglets.


    ROAD TO OZ, THE.

      This book tells how to reach the Magic City of Oz over a road
      leading through lands of many colors, peopled with odd characters.


    EMERALD CITY OF OZ, THE.

      The last of the “Oz” books, in which all of the old and some new
      characters are assembled.


  POLLY AND DOLLY. By Mary Frances Blaisdell.

Pleasant short stories for young children. 5 to 7.


  SANTA CLAUS ON A LARK. By Washington Gladden.

A good collection of Christmas stories. 8 to 10.


  SHORT STORIES FOR SHORT PEOPLE. By Alicia Aspinwall.

A good collection of humorous stories. 6 to 10.


  SPARROW THE TRAMP. By Lily F. Wesselhoeft.

A fable for children. 7 to 9.


  STORY OF AARON, THE. By Joel Chandler Harris.

The story of an Arab slave, in the telling of which animals figure
prominently. 8 to 10.


  WHY THE CHIMES RANG; AND OTHER STORIES. By Raymond Macdonald Alden.

A very successful collection of modern fairy tales. The story “Why the
Chimes Rang” is especially good. 6 to 10.


  WILDERNESS BABIES. By Julia A. Schwartz.

Contains a careful description of the young of sixteen mammals, ranging
from the whale and the buffalo to the squirrel and the bat. 8 to 10.




                   _For Boys and Girls Ten to Twelve_


  BIMBI STORIES. By Louisa de la Ramée (“Ouida”).

Contents: “The Nürnberg Stove”; “The Ambitious Rose Tree”; “Lampblack”;
“The Child of Urbino”; “Findelkind.”


  BIRDS’ CHRISTMAS CAROL, THE. By Kate Douglas Wiggin.

Tells how Sarah Maud, Peoria, Cornelius, Baby Larry, and the rest of the
nine little Ruggleses went to a Christmas dinner party.


  CHRISTMAS ANGEL, THE. By Abbie Farwell Brown.

A very pretty Christmas fable, full of sweet sentiment.


  DOG OF FLANDERS. By Louisa de la Ramée (“Ouida”).

A Christmas story of old Antwerp, a young artist and his faithful dog.


  DONKEY JOHN OF THE TOY VALLEY. By Margaret W. Morley.

A very pretty story of the wooden-toy makers in an Austrian valley.
“Donkey John” was so named because he excelled only in the making of
wooden donkeys, and his work made him famous.


  “JOLLY GOOD TIMES” SERIES, THE. By Mary P. W. Smith.

Delightful and wholesome “out-of-door” stories. 9 to 12.

         1. JOLLY GOOD TIMES; OR, CHILD LIFE ON A FARM.

         2. JOLLY GOOD TIMES AT SCHOOL.

         3. THE BROWNS.

         4. THEIR CANOE TRIP.

         5. JOLLY GOOD TIMES AT HACKINATACK.

         6. MORE GOOD TIMES AT HACKINATACK.

         7. JOLLY GOOD TIMES TO-DAY.

         8. A JOLLY GOOD SUMMER.


  JUAN AND JUANITA. By Frances C. Baylor.

A story of two Mexican children who were captured by Indians.


  JUNGLE BOOK, THE. By Rudyard Kipling.

A child, brought up by wolves, becomes their leader and the friend of
the animals of the jungle. 8 to 12.


  LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, THE. By Charles W. Moore.

Emphasis is laid on the boyhood and youth of Lincoln, his struggle for
an education and a place in the world, and the chief events of his
public life. 10 to 13.


  LISBETH LONGFROCK. By Hans Aanrud. Translated from the Norwegian by L.
      E. Poulsson.

A splendid picture of Norwegian life.


  LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY. By Frances Hodgson Burnett.

Shows how a little American boy won the love of his English grandfather.


  MONKEY THAT WOULD NOT KILL, THE. By Henry Drummond.

The pranks of a mischievous monkey.


  NEW TREASURE SEEKERS, THE. By E. Nesbit (Mrs. Bland).

A companion to “The Treasure Seekers.” The further adventures of the
same family.


  NIGHTS WITH UNCLE REMUS. By Joel Chandler Harris.

The adventures of Brer Fox and Brer Rabbit.


  PICTURES AND RHYMES. By Peter Newell.

A collection of fifty of Peter Newell’s characteristic drawings. Very
humorous. 8 to 12.


  QUEEN’S MUSEUM, AND OTHER FANCIFUL TALES, THE. By Frank R. Stockton.

A selection of this author’s most popular whimsical stories, well
illustrated in colors by Frederic Richardson.


  RAINY DAY SCRAP BOOK, THE. By E. L. and E. T. Shuman.

Contains leaves which are arranged to contain pasted pictures. On each
leaf is a key to the proper picture, which is to be picked out of a
portfolio containing them at the front of the book. The idea is to give
children, by illustrating their own scrap book, some knowledge of the
works of the masters of art and of the classic structures of the old
world. 9 to 13.


  SECOND JUNGLE BOOK, THE. By Rudyard Kipling.

The animals of the East Indian forest talk together and tell the secrets
of the jungle.


  SLOWCOACH, THE. By E. V. Lucas.

The “Slowcoach” is a caravan (a house on wheels), which was delivered to
an English family, consisting of the mother and four children, much to
their surprise. They utilize the gift, however, and have with it a very
enjoyable tour. The story contains much good humor. 11 to 13.


  STORIES FROM THE CHRONICLES OF THE CID. By Mary W. Plummer.

A connected narrative, strong and interesting.


  SWEET WILLIAM. By Marguerite Bouvet.

The romantic story of a little Prince of Normandy, who was falsely
imprisoned during the days of chivalry.


  SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON, THE. By Johann Rudolph Wyss.

The adventures of a family shipwrecked on a desert island.


  TREASURE SEEKERS, THE. By E. Nesbit (Mrs. Bland).

The adventures of a family of imaginative children.


  UNCLE REMUS AND HIS FRIENDS. By Joel Chandler Harris.

Old plantation songs and stories.


  UNCLE REMUS: HIS SONGS AND HIS SAYINGS. By Joel Chandler Harris.

Tales of Brer Fox, Brer Rabbit. Includes the “Tar Baby.” 8 to 12.


  WOULDBEGOODS, THE. By Mrs. H. Bland (E. Nesbit).

A charming and amusing story of a family of children who are always
unintentionally getting into trouble.




                  _For Boys and Girls Ten to Eighteen_


  ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By Noah Brooks.

Deals particularly with Lincoln’s early life. 12 to 14.


  ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By John G. Nicolay.

A short history, condensed from the larger work by Nicolay and Hay.
Clear, concise, and dignified. 16 to 18.


  ALHAMBRA, THE. By Washington Irving.

Legends and traditions that have been woven around the ruins of the
beautiful Moorish palace. 15 to 18.


  AROUND THE WORLD IN THE YACHT “SUNBEAM.” By Lady Anna Brassey.

An excellent description of a voyage round the world taken by Lord and
Lady Brassey in their famous yacht. 14 to 17.


  BEN-HUR. By Lew Wallace.

A classic story of the time of Christ. 16 to 18.


  BOYS AND GIRLS FROM DICKENS. Edited by Broughton Scott.

Twenty of the most famous children from the works of Dickens told in the
novelist’s own words. 11 to 13.


  BOYS OF ’76. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

An interesting account of the battles of the Revolution. 12 to 14.


  BUILDING THE NATION. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

Events in the history of the United States, from the Revolution to the
Civil War. 12 to 14.


  CASTLE BLAIR. By Flora Louise Shaw.

The adventures of five children sent from India to live with an uncle in
Ireland. 12 to 14.


  CENTURY BOOK FOR YOUNG AMERICANS, THE. By Elbridge S. Brooks.

A party of boys and girls visit Washington and learn of the workings of
the various departments of the Government. 10 to 13.


  CENTURY BOOK OF FAMOUS AMERICANS, THE. By Elbridge S. Brooks.

A party of boys and girls travel from Boston to the Potomac and the Ohio
and visit the homes of famous Americans. 10 to 13.


  CHAPLET OF PEARLS, THE. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

A romance of the time of the massacre of St. Bartholomew. 14 to 16.


  CHILDREN’S LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, THE. By M. Louise Putnam.

The story of Lincoln’s life combining entertaining narrative with
accurate statement. 10 to 14.


  CHILD’S ENGLISH LITERATURE, THE. By H. E. Marshall.

The life and personality of each author is given in outline, with enough
quotation to afford an idea of what he wrote. The outlined historical
background will enable the young reader to feel the connection between
literature and the life of the time. 12 to 15.


  CHILD’S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, THE. By Charles Dickens.

From the Roman Conquest, B. C. 50, to the reign of William and Mary, A.
D. 1688. Contains chapter on succeeding reigns. 12 to 16.


  CHRISTMAS CAROL, A. By Charles Dickens.

A Christmas ghost story. 12 to 14.


  CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, THE. By Charles Dickens.

A fairy tale, the chief characters in which are an old toy-maker and his
blind daughter. 12 to 15.


  DAVID COPPERFIELD. By Charles Dickens.

In his preface the author says that of all his books, he likes this one
the best. Everyone knows of Little Em’ly, Barkis, and Mr. Peggotty. 14
to 16.


  DON QUIXOTE. By Miguel de Cervantes.

The edition best suited for young people is that re-told by E. A. Parry,
and illustrated by Walter Crane. The Dent edition is also recommended.
10 to 14.


  DOVE IN THE EAGLE’S NEST. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

The story of a maid who grew up in the castle of a German robber baron
of the fifteenth century. 14 to 16.


  DRUM-BEAT OF THE NATION. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

The first period of the War of the Rebellion from its outbreak to the
close of 1862. 12 to 14.


  EIGHT COUSINS. By Louisa M. Alcott.

The doings of a fun-loving girl and her seven boy cousins. 12 to 14.


  EMPIRE STORY, AN. By H. E. Marshall.

The story of the development of England’s great colonies. Includes
India, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. 12 to 15.


  FEATS ON THE FIORD. By Harriet Martineau.

The romance of a Norse peasant maid. 14 to 16.


  FREEDOM TRIUMPHANT. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

The fourth period of the War of the Rebellion, from September, 1864, to
its close. 12 to 14.


  GEORGE WASHINGTON. By Horace E. Scudder.

One of the best lives of Washington for young readers. 12 to 16.


  GRANDFATHER’S CHAIR; OR, TRUE STORIES FROM NEW ENGLAND HISTORY. By
      Nathaniel Hawthorne.

A splendid introduction to the history of New England from 1620 to 1803.
12 to 14.


  GULLIVER’S TRAVELS. By Jonathan Swift.

A voyage to Lilliput and a voyage to Brobdingnag. 12 to 14.


  HALF A HUNDRED HERO TALES. By various authors, including Nathaniel
      Hawthorne.

The Greek and Roman mythological heroes whose stories are here collected
are not covered in any other one volume. The arrangement gives the
interest of connected narrative to the account of the fall of Troy, the
Æneas stories, and the adventures of Ulysses. 11 to 13.


  HAROLD, THE LAST OF THE SAXON KINGS. By Bulwer-Lytton.

The end of the Saxon rule and the conquest of England by the Normans. 15
to 18.


  HANS BRINKER; OR, THE SILVER SKATES. By Mary Mapes Dodge.

The skating trip of four boys from Amsterdam to The Hague. A very fine
story. 12 to 14.


  HEIR OF REDCLYFFE, THE. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

The story of an English country family of the nineteenth century. 14 to
16.


  HELEN’S BABIES. By John Habberton.

A most amusing story of two mischievous and lovable children. Will
appeal to fathers and mothers as well as to their children. 12 to 14.


  HELMET AND SPEAR. By Rev. A. J. Church.

Tells about the wars of the Greeks and Romans. 14 to 16.


  HERODOTUS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. Edited by J. S. White.

A very attractive rendering for young people of this classic. 12 to 14.


  HEROIC LEGENDS. Re-told by Agnes Grozier Herbertson.

Contains old legends, such as St. George and the Dragon, Valentine and
Orson, Charlemagne and the Charcoal Burner, Richard and Blondel, etc. 10
to 13.


  ISLAND STORY, AN. By H. E. Marshall.

An interesting and readable history of England. Well illustrated. 12 to
14.


  JACK AND JILL. By Louisa M. Alcott.

A village story. 12 to 14.


  JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN. By Mrs. D. M. Craik (Miss Mulock).

An eighteenth century story of a man of high principle. 16 to 18.


  JO’S BOYS. By Louisa M. Alcott.

A sequel to “Little Men.” Tells how Aunt Jo’s boys and girls turned out.
12 to 14.


  KING ARTHUR, STORIES OF.

    Brooks, E. STORY OF KING ARTHUR AND THE KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE.
        11 to 14.

    Bulfinch, Thomas. AGE OF CHIVALRY, THE. 14 to 16.

    Farrington, M. V. TALES OF KING ARTHUR. 8 to 10.

    French, Allen. SIR MARROK. A TALE OF THE DAYS OF KING ARTHUR. 12 to
        14.

    Frost, W. H. COURT OF KING ARTHUR, THE. 10 to 14.

    Frost, W. H. KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE, THE. 10 to 14.

    Greene, F. N. LEGENDS OF KING ARTHUR AND HIS COURT. 10 to 12.

    Lang, A. (Ed.) BOOK OF ROMANCE, THE. 12 to 14.

    Lanier, Sidney. (Ed.) KNIGHTLY LEGENDS OF WALES; OR, THE BOYS’
        MABINOGION. 12 to 16.

    Lanier, Sidney. (Ed.) BOYS’ KING ARTHUR, THE. 12 to 16.

    Lathrop, Henry B. MALORY’S KING ARTHUR AND HIS KNIGHTS. 14 to 16.

    Macgregor, M. STORIES OF KING ARTHUR’S KNIGHTS. 8 to 10.

    Macleod, Mary. BOOK OF KING ARTHUR AND HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS, THE. 12 to
        14.

    Pyle, Howard. STORY OF KING ARTHUR AND HIS KNIGHTS, THE. 12 to 14.

    Pyle, Howard. STORY OF SIR LAUNCELOT AND HIS COMPANIONS, THE. 12 to
        14.

    Pyle, Howard. STORY OF THE CHAMPIONS OF THE ROUND TABLE, THE. 12 to
        16.

    Pyle, Howard. STORY OF THE GRAIL, THE. 12 to 16.

    Senior, Dorothy. KING WHO NEVER DIED, THE. 12 to 14.

    Sterling, M. B. STORY OF SIR GALAHAD, THE. 10 to 12.


  KNICKERBOCKER’S HISTORY OF NEW YORK. By Washington Irving.

A humorous history of New York. 16 to 18.


  KNIGHTS OF ART. By Amy Steedman.

Stories of the lives of the great Italian masters told for young folks.
Well told and beautifully illustrated. 9 to 12.


  LAST DAYS OF POMPEII. By Bulwer-Lytton.

A very entertaining description of life in Rome in the first century. 15
to 18.


  LAST OF THE BARONS, THE. By Bulwer-Lytton.

A tale of the War of the Roses. Warwick the “Kingmaker” is the chief
character. 15 to 18.


  LAST OF THE PETERKINS, THE. By Lucretia M. Hale.

Amusing stories for unpractical children. Follows “Peterkin Papers.” 12
to 16.


  LITTLE MEN. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Follows “Little Women,” and tells of the school for boys kept by one of
the sisters. 12 to 14.


  LORNA DOONE. By R. D. Blackmore.

A stirring romance of Exmoor (England) during the early part of the
eighteenth century. 16 to 18.


  MARCHING TO VICTORY. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

The second period of the War of the Rebellion, including the year 1863.
12 to 14.


  MISS MINERVA AND WILLIAM GREEN HILL. By Frances Boyd Calhoun.

A story full of real fun and humor that will appeal to grown-ups and
young folks equally. 14 to 18.


  OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, THE. By Charles Dickens.

The story of Little Nell and her grandfather, Dick Swiveller, and the
Marchioness. 14 to 16.


  OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

Sketches of the life in the colonies from the discovery and settlement
of America to about 1760. 12 to 14.


  OPTIMISM. By Helen Keller.

A remarkable creed of life by this deaf and blind girl. 16 to 18.


  PARABLES FROM NATURE. By Mrs. Alfred Gatty.

Splendid lessons drawn from nature. 12 to 18.


  PAUL AND VIRGINIA. By Jacques Henri B. de Saint-Pierre.

A story of the Island of Mauritius. 16 to 18.


  PERSONALLY CONDUCTED. By Frank R. Stockton.

Describes a tour through England, France, Italy, and the Low Countries.
12 to 14.


  PETERKIN PAPERS. By Lucretia P. Hale.

Very funny stories of the efforts of a family to become wise. 12 to 16.


  PILGRIM’S PROGRESS, THE. By John Bunyan.

One of the world’s classics. Tells of the wonderful adventures of
Christian. Editions recommended—Nister, Dent, Puritan, and Golden
Treasury. 10 to 16.


  PLUTARCH, BOYS’ AND GIRLS’, THE. Edited by J. S. White.

Realistic lives of the Greek and Roman heroes. 11 to 14.


  PLUTARCH’S LIVES. Corrected from the Greek and revised by A. H.
      Clough.

The best text and editorship of this classic. 16 to 18.


  PRINCE OF INDIA, THE. By Lew Wallace.

An historical romance, beginning in the year 1395. Describes the assault
and sack of the old Byzantine capital by Mohammed II, and of his entry
into Sancta Sophia. 16 to 18.


  PUCK OF POOK’S HILL. By Rudyard Kipling.

An interweaving of fairy tale and historical romance of old England. 12
to 16.


  RAB AND HIS FRIENDS. By John Brown.

A Scotch story, the chief actor in which is the noble dog Rab. In the
persons of his friends, a remarkable woman and her husband, there is
given a splendid character sketch. A beautiful and pathetic story. 14 to
16.


  REDEEMING THE REPUBLIC. By Charles Carleton Coffin.

The third period of the War of the Rebellion, to September, 1864. 12 to
14.


  REWARDS AND FAIRIES. By Rudyard Kipling.

A companion book to “Puck of Pook’s Hill.” Contains a rather remarkable
poem—“If.” These two books will appeal to grown-ups also. 12 to 16.


  RIP VAN WINKLE. By Washington Irving.

Legend of the Hudson Valley. The story of a man who slept for twenty
years. 16 to 18.


  ROSE IN BLOOM. By Louisa M. Alcott.

A sequel to “Eight Cousins.” 12 to 14.


  ST. NICHOLAS MAGAZINE.

The twelve monthly numbers are bound up in two volumes, and always
contain good serial stories for boys and girls, as well as short stories
and verses, etc. 9 to 15.


  SANTA CLAUS’ PARTNER. By Thomas Nelson Page.

A story of a lonely bachelor and a little girl. 12 to 14.


  SCOTLAND’S STORY. By H. E. Marshall.

A history of the stirring events and gallant deeds with which the annals
of Scotland are filled. Illustrated in colors. 12 to 15.


  SCOTTIE AND HIS LADY. By Margaret Morse.

The story of a faithful and remarkably intelligent collie dog. 16 to 18.


  SCOTTISH CHIEFS, THE. By Jane Porter.

The story of Robert Bruce, Sir William Wallace, and the Scottish
struggle for independence during the twelfth century. 14 to 16.


  STORY OF MARCO POLO, THE. By Noah Brooks.

A story of travel in Asia in the thirteenth century. 14 to 16.


  STORY OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS. By Lucy C. Lillie.

The idea is to interest young students in music in the technique of
their art, and in the associations amid which great masters have worked.
14 to 16.


  STORY OF THE OTHER WISE MAN, THE. By Henry van Dyke.

A beautiful Christmas story. It tells of a fourth wise man who also set
out to seek the manger-cradle at Bethlehem, but who found his King in
deeds of love. 16 to 18.


  STORY OF TONTY, THE. By Mary Hartwell Catherwood.

A fine story of French exploration in America. The hero is Tonty of the
Iron Hand, the friend of La Salle. 12 to 15.


  TALE OF TWO CITIES, A. By Charles Dickens.

One of Dickens’ best stories. It pictures the fierce passions of the
first French revolution, and tells how a noble-minded castaway, Sidney
Carton, gave his life for another. 14 to 16.


  TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. By Charles and Mary Lamb.

A splendid introduction to Shakespeare for young people. Excellent
editions are published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, E. P. Dutton & Co.,
and The Baker & Taylor Co. 11 to 14.


  TALES FROM THE ALHAMBRA. By Washington Irving.

Contains six absorbing stories from Irving’s masterpiece. 12 to 14.


  UNDER THE LILACS. By Louisa M. Alcott.

The story of a circus boy and his dog who made friends for themselves at
a country house. 12 to 14.


  UNDINE. By La Motte Fouqué.

The story of a water-sprite who loved a mortal, and who, through love,
acquired a soul. 14 to 16.


  UNKNOWN TO HISTORY. By Charlotte M. Yonge.

A story of Mary, Queen of Scots. 14 to 16.


  VICAR OF WAKEFIELD, THE. By Oliver Goldsmith.

How an English country family met with many calamities and how at last
fortune favored them. A classic. 16 to 18.


  WAR OF INDEPENDENCE, THE. By John Fiske.

One of the best condensed studies of the causes and effects of the war.
14 to 16.


  “WORLD’S BEST” SERIES, THE. 6 Vols. Edited by Sherwin Cody. Contains:

    A selection from the world’s greatest short stories.

    A selection from the best English essays.

    The best Poems and Essays of Edgar Allan Poe.

    The best Tales of Edgar Allan Poe.

    A selection from the world’s great orations.

    A selection from the great English poets. 14 to 18.


  ZENOBIA. By William Ware.

A tale of the Roman Empire in the days of the Emperor Aurelian. 16 to
18.




              _Myths, Fairy Tales, Legends, and Folk Lore_


  ÆNEID FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, THE. By Rev. A. J. Church.

Stories from Virgil in simple language. 10 to 14.


  AGE OF FABLE. By Thomas Bulfinch.

A standard work on Greek, Roman, Norse, Egyptian, and Hindu mythology.
13 to 17.


  ANDERSEN’S FAIRY STORIES. By Hans Christian Andersen.

Perhaps the best translation is that by Mrs. Lucas. Other very good and
attractive editions are those published by J. B. Lippincott & Co., The
Dodge Pub. Co., and Houghton Mifflin Co. 6 to 9.


  ARABIAN NIGHTS, THE.

The selection edited by Andrew Lang, and that by Kate Douglas Wiggin,
and the “Helen Stratton” Edition (Dodge) are recommended. 11 to 14.


  AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND. By George Macdonald.

A fairy tale in which the North Wind takes the boy on various
excursions. 8 to 14.


  AUNT LOUISA’S BOOK OF WONDER TALES. By Mrs. L. Valentine.

Popular fairy tales simply told. 5 to 8.


  BEE-MAN OF ORN. By Frank R. Stockton.

Exceedingly good fanciful tales. 10 to 12.


  BIRCH-TREE FAIRY BOOK, THE. Edited by Clifton Johnson.

Contains many familiar fairy stories and also little-known folk stories
from Japan and other countries. 6 to 9.


  BOY’S CUCHULAIN, THE. By Eleanor Hull.

Entertaining versions of the great Irish legends. 12 to 15.


  CELTIC FAIRY TALES. Edited by Joseph Jacobs.

Fairy and folk tales from the Irish, Welsh, and Cornish. 6 to 10.


  CHILD’S BOOK OF STORIES, A. Compiled by P. W. Coussens.

The most complete collection of the better-known classic fairy and folk
tales published. The illustrations in colors are by Jessie Willcox
Smith. 5 to 9.


  DANISH FAIRY AND FOLK TALES. Compiled by J. Christian Bay.

A collection of stories and fairy tales from the Danish of Svend
Gruntvig, E. T. Kristensen, Ingvor Bondesen, and L. Budde. 7 to 10.


  ELM-TREE FAIRY BOOK, THE. Edited by Clifton Johnson.

The third collection of Mr. Johnson’s popular version of fairy tales and
folk lore. The two previous volumes are “The Oak-Tree Fairy Book” and
“The Birch-Tree Fairy Book.” 6 to 9.


  ENGLISH FAIRY TALES. Edited by Joseph Jacobs.

A standard collection of old English fairy and folk tales. An excellent
book for the use of teachers. 5 to 9.


  FAIRY TALES FROM FAR JAPAN. By Susan Ballard.

Popular specimens of Japanese fairy lore. 8 to 10.


  FAIRY TALES OF ALL NATIONS. By Edouard Laboulaye.

Fairy tales in which are wit and satire that will also appeal to older
people. 10 to 14.


  FAIRY TALES OF ALL NATIONS. Translated and edited by Logan Marshall.

Contains stories from the English, German, French, Italian, Arabic,
Russian, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Bohemian, Japanese, etc. 6 to 9.


  GOLDEN GOOSE AND OTHER FAIRY TALES, THE. By Eva March Tappan.

Six stories from the Scandinavian: “The Golden Goose,” “The Giant’s
House with the Roof of Sausages,” “The Simple-minded Giant,” “The Stolen
Princess,” “The Black Fox and the Red,” “The Little Wild Man.” 6 to 9.


  GRANNY’S WONDERFUL CHAIR. By Frances Browne.

A splendid collection of fairy tales, the more remarkable inasmuch as
Miss Browne was born blind. 7 to 9.


  GREEK HEROES, THE. By Charles Kingsley.

Greek fairy tales. A classic. 10 to 12.


  HAUFF’S FAIRY TALES.

The edition translated by L. L. Weedon is to be preferred. 10 to 12.


  HEROES OF CHIVALRY AND ROMANCE. By Rev. A. J. Church.

Stories of Beowulf, the “Treasure of the Nibelungs,” “King Arthur and
the Knights of the Round Table.” 12 to 14.


  HEROES OF ICELAND. Adapted by Allen French.

From Sir George Webbe Dasent’s translation of “The Story of Burnt Njal.”
12 to 14.


  HEROES OF THE OLDEN TIMES. By James Baldwin.

“Story of Siegfried, The”; “Story of Roland, The”; “Story of the Golden
Age, The”; “Legends of the Niebelungen Hero”; “Roland and Oliver”; and
“The Trojan War.” 10 to 14.


  HOME FAIRY TALES. By Jean Macé. Translated from the French by Mary L.
      Booth.

Edouard Laboulaye commends this collection of fairy tales as one of the
best published in France. 9 to 12.

HORSE FAIR, THE. By James Baldwin.

Tells about the famous horses of mythology, history and literature. 10
to 14.


  ILIAD FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, THE. By Rev. A. J. Church.

One of the best simply told collections of stories from the Iliad of
Homer. 10 to 14.


  INDIAN FAIRY TALES. Edited by Joseph Jacobs.

A representative collection of tales gathered from the Hindus. 6 to 10.


  JAPANESE FAIRY TALES. By Teresa P. Williston.

The stories re-told by Mrs. Williston are stories that Japanese mothers
tell to their children. There are colored illustrations by a Japanese
artist. 8 to 11.


  KING OF THE GOLDEN RIVER; OR, THE BLACK BROTHERS. By John Ruskin.

A fairy tale of what happened to two men who tried to get rich by evil
means, and of how the fortune they wanted went to their little brother.
8 to 10.


  KNIGHTHOOD IN GERM AND FLOWER. By John H. Cox.

The adventures of Beowulf, and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight. 9 to 12.


  JOAN OF ARC. Written and illustrated in full color by Boutet de
      Monvel.

The illustrations are remarkably good, and depict very clearly various
events in the life of Joan of Arc.


  LANG, ANDREW, FAIRY BOOKS, THE (Edited).


    BLUE FAIRY BOOK, THE. 6 to 9.

    BROWN FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    CRIMSON FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    GREEN FAIRY BOOK, THE. 6 to 9.

    GREY FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    OLIVE FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    ORANGE FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    PINK FAIRY BOOK, THE. 6 to 10.

    RED FAIRY BOOK, THE. 6 to 9.

    VIOLET FAIRY BOOK, THE. 8 to 11.

    YELLOW FAIRY BOOK, THE. 6 to 10.

Excellent collections of fairy tales, gathered from all sources.

LAST FAIRY TALES. By Edouard Laboulaye.

Fairy tales full of wit, sensibility, and moral power. There are more
than 300 illustrations. 10 to 14.


  LEGENDS OF CHARLEMAGNE. By Thomas Bulfinch.

Legends gathered from the great Italian poets. 14 to 18.


  LEGENDS AND STORIES OF ITALY. By Amy Steedman.

A collection of legends and tales containing examples of goodly living,
well and effectively told. The book is well illustrated in colors. 10 to
13.


  LEGENDS OF SWITZERLAND. By Hélène A. Guerber.

  LEGENDS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. By Hélène A. Guerber.

  LEGENDS OF THE RHINE. By Hélène A. Guerber.

These legends are in attractive narrative form, and each book is well
illustrated. 14 to 18.


  LIGHT PRINCESS, THE. By George Macdonald.

The experiences of a little princess who weighed nothing. Ingeniously
imagined and well told. 7 to 10.


  LONG AGO IN GREECE. By Edmund J. Carpenter.

A book of golden hours with the old story tellers. Preserves the
atmosphere and subject matter of the famous old stories it presents. 11
to 13.

MOPSA THE FAIRY. By Jean Ingelow.

The story of a little boy who goes into Fairyland on the back of an
albatross, and of what he sees there. 6 to 9.


  MYTHS AND LEGENDS OF THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST. By Katherine B. Judson.

Interesting folk lore of the mountains, valleys, and plains of the
Pacific Northwest. Indian nomenclature is used entirely. There are fifty
illustrations from photographs of scenes and Indian types. 14 to 16.


  NORSE FAIRY TALES. Selected and adapted from the translations of Sir
      George Webbe Dasent.


  OAK-TREE FAIRY BOOK, THE. Edited by Clifton Johnson.

Well-known fairy tales with their savagery eliminated. 6 to 10.


  ODYSSEY FOR BOYS AND GIRLS, THE. By Rev. A. J. Church. 10 to 14.


  OLD INDIAN LEGENDS. By Zitkala-Sa.

Legends of the Dakota Indians. 8 to 11.


  PEPPER AND SALT. By Howard Pyle.

Fairy tales and rhymes, cleverly illustrated by the author. 8 to 10.


  PETER PAN IN KENSINGTON GARDENS. By J. M. Barrie. Illustrated by
      Arthur Rackham.

This, perhaps the most popular of all modern fairy tales, is taken from
the author’s well-known volume, “The Little White Bird.” 8 to 12.


  POPULAR TALES FROM THE NORSE. By Sir George Webbe Dasent.

Translated from M. M. Asbjörnsen and Moe’s collection of Norse fairy
tales and legends. A valuable book for teachers of the Grammar grades. 9
to 12.


  PRINCE SILVER WINGS, AND OTHER FAIRY TALES. By Edith Ogden Harrison.

A series of fairy tales told by the author to her own children, whose
ages ranged from six to nine. Illustrated in colors by Lucy Fitch
Perkins. 6 to 9.


  PRINCESS AND CURDIE, THE. By George Macdonald.

A companion book to “Princess and the Goblin.” Tells how Curdie and his
wild beasts overcame the enemies of the king. 8 to 10.


  PRINCESS AND THE GOBLIN, THE. By George Macdonald.

The story of how the princess and Curdie overthrew the wicked goblins of
the mountains. 8 to 10.


  RUSSIAN GRANDMOTHER’S WONDER TALES. By Louise Seymour Houghton.

A good collection of Russian folk lore tales. 10 to 14.


  SCOTTISH FAIRY BOOK, THE. Compiled by Elizabeth W. Grierson.

A representative collection from the different classes of Scottish folk
lore. 8 to 10.


  STAR PEOPLE. By Katharine Fay Dewey.

A fairy book of astronomy. Fanciful tales about Orion, Cassiopeia,
Andromeda, Perseus, the Great Bear, the Little Bear, and other Star
People. 7 to 10.


  STAR FAIRIES, AND OTHER FAIRY TALES, THE. By Edith Ogden Harrison.

The author has used the stars and planets as bases for these stories.
Illustrated in colors by Lucy Fitch Perkins. 6 to 9.


  STORIES FROM THE NORSELAND. By John P. Edmison.

Old Norse legends re-told from the original Scandinavian sources. 9 to
12.


  STORIES OF PERSIAN HEROES. By E. M. Wilmot-Buxton.

Stories of the kings of Persia. 12 to 14.


  STORY OF RUSTEM. By Elizabeth D. Renninger.

Hero stories of Persia re-told from the Shah Naameh of Firdusi. 10 to
13.


  STORY OF THE ÆNEID. By Dr. Edward Brooks.

Tells of the erratic journeyings of Æneas in choice and simple English.
10 to 12.


  STORY OF THE ILIAD. By Dr. Edward Brooks.

The chief episodes of the tale of Helen of Troy and the dire results of
her misdoing. 10 to 12.


  STORY OF THE ODYSSEY, THE. By Dr. Edward Brooks.

An attractive telling of the wanderings of Ulysses. 10 to 12.


  STORY OF THE RHINEGOLD. By Anna A. Chapin.

Stories from Wagner’s “Nibelungen Ring,” told as a connected narrative.
10 to 12.


  TALES OF ANCIENT GREECE. By Sir George W. Cox.

Tales of Greek mythology. 14 to 16.


  TALES FROM THE FJELD. By Sir George Webbe Dasent.

A series of popular tales translated from the Norse of P. Ch.
Asbjörnsen. A good book for classroom use. 9 to 12.


  TALES OF THE ENCHANTED ISLANDS OF THE ATLANTIC. By Thomas Wentworth
      Higginson.

Myths and legends from Breton, Spanish, Norse, and British sources. 12
to 15.


  THREE GOOD GIANTS. Compiled from the French of François Rabelais by
      John Dimitry.

The famous deeds of Grandgousier, Gargantua, and Pantagruel told for
children. 7 to 10.


  VIKING TALES. By Rasmus Björn Anderson.

A fine rendition of the Norse Sagas. 14 to 18.


  WAGNER OPERA STORIES. By Grace E. Barber.

An excellent interpretation for children. 10 to 12.


  WAGNER STORY BOOK, THE. By William Henry Frost.

Tales of the great music dramas. Contains “The Story of the Knight of
the Swan,” “The Ring of the Nibelungen,” “The Search for the Grail,”
“Lohengrin,” and “Parsifal.” 11 to 13.


  WAGNER’S HEROES. By Constance E. Maud.

Parsifal, Hans Sachs, Tannhäuser, Lohengrin. 12 to 16.


  WAGNER’S HEROINES. By Constance E. Maud.

Brunhilda, Senta, Isolde. 12 to 16.


  WATER BABIES, THE. By Charles Kingsley.

The fairy tale of a little chimney sweep who became a water-baby and
played with the sea children. 8 to 11.


  WELSH FAIRY BOOK, A. By W. Jenkyn Thomas.

A collection of Welsh fairy tales new to most children. 8 to 10.


  WONDER BOOK AND TANGLEWOOD TALES. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

Splendid renderings of the old Greek myths. The most attractive edition
is that illustrated by Maxfield Parrish. Good editions, illustrated, are
published by E. P. Dutton & Co., G. W. Jacobs & Co., and in separate
form by Houghton Mifflin Co. 10 to 12.


  WONDER BOOK OF OLD ROMANCE. By F. J. H. Darton.

The re-told legends of King Robert of Sicily, Sir Gawain, etc. 10 to 13.


  WONDER CLOCK, THE. By Howard Pyle.

Twenty-four adaptations of German folk tales. 10 to 12.


  WONDER TALES FROM WAGNER. By Anna A. Chapin.

Stories of “The Flying Dutchman,” “Tannhäuser,” “Lohengrin,” “Tristan
and Isolde,” and “The Master Singers.” 10 to 12.


  WONDERFUL ADVENTURES OF NILS, THE. By Selma O. L. Lagerlöf. Translated
      from the Swedish by V. S. Howard.

The story of a cruel boy, who, punished for his malice, goes to the
Northland with the wild geese, and there learns the value of love and
kindness. 10 to 13.




                             _Nature Study_


  ACCORDING TO SEASON. By Frances Theodore Parsons.

Talks about the flowers in the order of their appearance in woods and
fields. 14 to 18.


  AFRICAN GAME TRAILS. By Theodore Roosevelt. Illustrated with
      photographs by Kermit Roosevelt and others; also with drawings.

A graphic description of the ex-president’s expedition in Africa. 16 to
18.


  AMERICAN NATURAL HISTORY, THE. By William T. Hornaday.

A foundation of useful knowledge of the higher animals of North America.
Contains 220 original drawings and 100 photographs. 14 to 18.


  AMONG THE FARMYARD PEOPLE. By Clara D. Pierson.

Stories about domestic animals. 6 to 9.


  AMONG THE MEADOW PEOPLE. By Clara D. Pierson.

Tells about birds and insects. 6 to 9.


  AMONG THE MOTHS AND BUTTERFLIES. By Julia P. Ballard.

Simple, accurate, and untechnical. 10 to 14.


  AMONG THE POND PEOPLE. By Clara D. Pierson.

About all sorts of the pond’s inhabitants—tadpoles, fish, mink, frogs,
etc. 6 to 9.


  ANIMAL HEROES. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

The histories of a cat, a dog, a pigeon, a lynx, two wolves, and a
reindeer. 12 to 14.


  BEASTS OF THE FIELD. By William J. Long.

Tells about the beaver, fox, bear, rabbit, caribou, otter, etc. 10 to
12.


  BEE PEOPLE, THE. By Margaret W. Morley.

One of the few books about bees that can be read and understood by young
people. A very successful nature book. 10 to 14.


  BIRD LIFE. By Frank M. Chapman.

A guide to the study of our common birds. Contains 75 full-page colored
plates. 14 to 18.


  BIRD NEIGHBORS. By Neltje Blanchan. With an introduction by John
      Burroughs.

An introduction to 150 birds commonly found in the gardens, meadows, and
woods about our homes. Well illustrated in color and black and white. 12
to 18.


  BIRDS AND BEES, AND OTHER PAPERS. By John Burroughs.

Treats of birds, bees, the musk-rat, squirrel, woodchuck, fox, etc. 12
to 14.


  BLACK BEAR, THE. By William H. Wright.

The author had many years’ experience in tramping the forests and
mountains of the West, and this book is the result of his personal
observations of the bear, of which animal he has made a particular
study. 14 to 16.


  BLACK BRUIN; THE BIOGRAPHY OF A BEAR. By Clarence Hawkes.

The story of a common black bear of the Allegheny Mountains. His early
cubhood was spent as a pet in the family of a farmer. Later he broke
away into the woods and there learned the wild life of his kind. 10 to
12.


  CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS. By William Hamilton Gibson.

Hints on trapping and trap making; tells of the requisites for camp
life; shows how to build camps and canoes, and how to care for furs. 16
to 18.


  EYE SPY. By William Hamilton Gibson.

A very attractive nature book which will interest the reader in the
insect and plant life around him. Well illustrated. 12 to 14.


  FAIRY-LAND OF SCIENCE. By Arabella B. Buckley.

Science sugar-coated. Tells in easy language about air, water, sunbeams,
sounds, flowers, etc. 12 to 14.


  FIRST BOOK OF BIRDS, THE. By Olive Thorne Miller.

The lives and habits of common birds. Illustrated in colors. 8 to 10.


  HOUSE IN THE WATER, THE. By Charles G. D. Roberts.

The longest story in the book, “The House in the Water,” gives a good
description of the life of the beaver. 14 to 16.


  HOW TO KNOW THE FERNS. By Frances Theodora Parsons.

A guide to the names, haunts, and habits of our common ferns. Contains
144 illustrations. 14 to 18.


  HUNTING IN BRITISH EAST AFRICA. By Percy C. Madeira.

The account of a successful hunt for African game, both large and small,
taken by the author during the winter of 1907–1908. 16 to 18.


  IN CLOSED TERRITORY. By Edgar Beecher Bronson.

An account of hunting big game in British East Africa. 16 to 18.


  KINDRED OF THE WILD, THE. By Charles G. D. Roberts.

A fine collection of animal stories. 14 to 16.


  KING OF THE THUNDERING HERD. By Clarence Hawkes.

The biography of an American bison. Gives the color and life of the
prairies as it was forty years ago. 12 to 14.


  LITTLE FOLKS IN FEATHERS AND FUR. By Olive Thorne Miller.

Stories about animals, birds, and insects. 7 to 10.


  LIVES OF THE FUR FOLK. By M. D. Haviland.

Deals with the life histories and adventures (the latter founded on
fact) of the fox, rabbit, cat, and badger in Ireland. Incidentally some
light is thrown on some obscure points of their natural history. 14 to
16.


  LIVES OF THE HUNTED. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

A true account of the doings of five quadrupeds and three birds. 12 to
14.


  NATURE STUDY AND LIFE. By Clifton F. Hodges.

Insects, plants, frogs, birds, squirrels, etc. 12 to 16.


  OUR COMMON BIRDS AND HOW TO KNOW THEM. By John B. Grant.

Contains 64 full-page illustrations. 14 to 18.


  RED FOX. By Charles G. D. Roberts.

The story of an intelligent fox’s adventures in the Ringwaak wilds.
Contains less of the tragic atmosphere than is usual in stories of
animal life. 14 to 16.


  PRINCE AND HIS ANTS, THE. By “Vamba.”

Translated from the Italian, in which it is a classic for children. The
story of a boy who became an ant. 8 to 11.


  SCHOOL OF THE WOODS, THE. By William J. Long.

Shows how the wild animals and birds train their young. 10 to 12.


  SECOND BOOK OF BIRDS, THE. By Olive Thorne Miller.

Tells about bird families. Well illustrated. 9 to 12.


  SHAGGYCOAT. By Clarence Hawkes.

The biography of a beaver. 10 to 12.


  SHARP EYES. By William Hamilton Gibson.

A calendar of fifty-two weeks among birds, insects, and flowers. The
illustrations are very helpful. 14 to 16.


  SONG OF LIFE, A. By Margaret M. Morley.

Contents: Flowers, Fishes, Frogs, Birds, The End and the Beginning, The
World’s Cradle. Good for mothers to read to children. 10 to 14.


  SQUIRRELS AND OTHER FUR-BEARERS. By John Burroughs.

Includes the habits of the chipmunk, hare, musk-rat, opossum, wild mice,
porcupine, etc. Contains 15 colored illustrations. 10 to 14.


  TWO YEARS IN THE JUNGLE. By William T. Hornaday.

The experiences of a hunter and naturalist in India, Ceylon, the Malay
Peninsula, and Borneo. 16 to 18.


  TRAIL OF THE SANDHILL STAG, THE. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

A hunting story. The author considers this to be his best work. 12 to
14.


  WATCHERS OF THE TRAILS, THE. By Charles G. D. Roberts.

A companion volume to “The Kindred of the Wild.” Will appeal especially
to those at all versed in woodcraft. 14 to 16.


  WAYS OF WOOD FOLK, THE. By William J. Long.

A very good collection of animal stories. 10 to 12.


  WHAT MR. DARWIN SAW. By Charles R. Darwin.

The story of Darwin’s voyage round the world in the ship _Beagle_.
Observations on natural history. 12 to 14.


  WILD ANIMALS I HAVE KNOWN. By Ernest Thompson Seton.

Contains eight stories of animal life, each full of vigor and action.
“Lobo,” “Silverspot,” “Raggylug,” “Bingo,” “The Springfield Fox,” “The
Pacing Mustang,” “Wully,” and “Redruff.” 12 to 14.


  WINGS AND STINGS. By Agnes McClelland Daulton.

In story form, the bees, ants, birds, and blossoms are made to tell
their own life histories. 7 to 10.


  WORLD OF THE GREAT FOREST, THE. By Paul B. Du Chaillu.

Tells how animals, birds, reptiles, and insects, talk, think, work, and
live. 12 to 14.




        _Science, Handicraft, and Reference For Boys and Girls_


  AMERICAN BOY’S HANDY BOOK, THE. By Dan C. Beard.

Gives directions for making boats, kites, games, toys, etc. An excellent
book on easy manual training. Classified according to seasons. 10 to 16.


  AMERICAN GIRL’S HANDY BOOK, THE; OR, HOW TO AMUSE YOURSELF AND OTHERS.
      By Lina and Adelia B. Beard.

Gives instructions for painting, amusements, decorating, drawing,
needlework, candy making, etc. 10 to 16.


  ART CRAFTS FOR BEGINNERS. By Frank G. Sanford.

Gives instructions in wood-working, metal-work, pyrography,
book-binding, basketry, and bead-work. 14 to 18.


  BOX FURNITURE. By Louise Brigham.

Shows how to make a hundred useful articles for the home. 14 to 18.


  BOY ELECTRICIAN, THE. By Edwin James Houston.

Gives information in narrative form. 14 to 16.


  BOY MINERAL COLLECTORS, THE. By Jay G. Kelley.

Mineralogy sugar-coated. 14 to 16.


  BOY PIONEERS, THE: SONS OF DANIEL BOONE. By Daniel C. Beard.

A good book for boy scouts. Tells how to build forts, make uniforms,
build swimming pools, make snow shoes, how to talk the sign language, to
play old pioneer games of skill, such as gander pulling and the goose
hangs high, throwing the tomahawk, etc. 10 to 16.


  BOY CRAFTSMAN, THE. By A. N. Hall.

Practical and profitable ideas for the boy’s leisure hours. 12 to 16.


  BOY’S BOOK OF AIRSHIPS, THE. By H. Delacombe.

A book on all varieties of airships, including everything to 1909. 12 to
18.


  BOY’S BOOK OF INVENTIONS, THE. By Ray Stannard Baker.

Gives untechnical descriptions of submarine boats, liquid air, wireless
telegraphy, automobiles, etc. 12 to 16.


  BOYS’ BOOK OF LOCOMOTIVES, THE. By J. R. Howden.

A good book for boys who are interested in machinery. 14 to 18.


  BOY’S BOOK OF MODEL AEROPLANES. By Francis A. Collins.

Shows how to build and fly them. Gives the story of the evolution of the
flying machine. 12 to 18.


  BOYS’ BOOK OF RAILWAYS, THE. By J. R. Howden.

The author considers passenger and freight traffic separately, taking up
the various articles of equipment and methods of operation. 14 to 18.


  BOYS’ BOOK OF STEAMSHIPS, THE. By J. R. Howden.

The evolution and construction of the steamboat. 14 to 18.


  BOYS’ BOOK OF WARSHIPS, THE. By J. R. Howden.

Describes the machinery, construction, armament, and operation of all
kinds of modern warships. 14 to 18.


  BOY’S SECOND BOOK OF INVENTIONS, THE. By Ray Stannard Baker.

Tells about radium, flying machines, electric furnaces, etc. 14 to 18.


  BOY’S WORKSHOP, THE. By Harry Cragin.

Shows how to make various useful things. 14 to 16.


  CARPENTRY FOR BOYS. By George B. Kilbon.

Elementary woodwork. 12 to 16.


  THE CHEMICAL HISTORY OF A CANDLE. By Michael Faraday.

Taking the candle as his text, the author illustrates important laws in
physics and chemistry in an easily understood manner. 14 to 16.


  CHILDREN’S BOOK OF THE STARS, THE. By Edith G. Mitton.

A clear, easy, and interesting account of the stars. 11 to 14.


  ELECTRICITY FOR EVERYBODY. By Philip Atkinson.

Gives clearly, and in non-scientific manner, the information regarding
the nature and uses of electricity. 14 to 18.


  FIELD AND FOREST HANDY BOOK, THE. By Daniel C. Beard.

Sports and ideas for each season, telling how to build a boat, how to
make aquariums, rafts, and sleds, how to camp in your backyard, etc. 12
to 16.


  FIRST YEARS IN HANDICRAFT. By Walter J. Kenyon.

Shows how to construct useful things out of paper and cardboard. 10 to
14.


  HARPER’S ELECTRICITY BOOK FOR BOYS. By Joseph H. Adams.

Gives directions for manufacturing ordinary electrical appliances with
home-made apparatus. 14 to 18.


  HARPER’S INDOOR BOOK FOR BOYS. By Joseph H. Adams.

Contains carpentry, wood-working, metal and wire work, relief-stitching,
book-binding, etc. 12 to 18.


  HARPER’S HANDY BOOK FOR GIRLS. Edited by Anna Parmly Paret.

The first part shows what can be done in the home, the second part deals
with arts and crafts, and the third part with needle and fancy work. 12
to 18.


  HARPER’S OUTDOOR BOOK FOR BOYS. Edited by Joseph H. Adams.

A practical guide for making useful things for the boy with a mechanical
turn of mind. 12 to 18.


  HISTORIC INVENTIONS. By Rupert S. Holland.

Contains accounts of the Printing Press, the Telescope, the Steam
Engine, the Locomotive, the Steamboat, the Spinning Jenny, the Safety
Lamp, the Cotton Gin, Porcelain, the Telegraph, the Telephone, the
Electric Light, the Submarine Boat, the Wireless Telegraph, and the
Airship. 12 to 18.


  HOW IT FLIES. By Richard Ferris.

The story of man’s endeavors to fly and of the inventions by which he
has succeeded. The book gives the reader a good idea of the different
types of aeroplanes, of how they are constructed, and how operated. 14
to 18.


  HOW IT IS DONE; OR, VICTORIES OF THE ENGINEER. By Archibald Williams.

Describes in an easily understood manner how great engineering
achievements in all parts of the world have been accomplished. 14 to 18.


  HOW IT IS MADE. By Archibald Williams.

Tells in simple language how various machines and many articles in
common use are manufactured from the raw materials. 14 to 18.


  HOW IT WORKS. By Archibald Williams.

Deals with steam, electricity, light, heat, sound, hydraulics, etc., and
with their application to apparatus in common use. 14 to 18.


  HOW TWO BOYS MADE THEIR OWN ELECTRICAL APPARATUS. By Thomas M. St.
      John.

Gives directions for making many different pieces of apparatus. 12 to
16.


  INDOOR AND OUTDOOR RECREATIONS FOR GIRLS. By Lina and Adelia B. Beard.

Gives directions for spinning, weaving, pottery making, picnics, games,
etc. 12 to 16.


  JACK OF ALL TRADES; OR, NEW IDEAS FOR AMERICAN BOYS. By Dan C. Beard.

Contains practical suggestions for keeping small wild and tame animals,
building cabins, and working with tools. 10 to 16.


  LADY HOLLYHOCK. By Margaret C. Walker.

Shows how to make dolls and other things out of vegetables and flowers.
8 to 10.


  OUTDOOR HANDY BOOK, THE, FOR PLAYGROUND, FIELD AND FOREST. By Dan C.
      Beard.

A book of outdoor games and sports; tops, marbles, football, hockey,
golf, etc. 10 to 16.


  PHOTOGRAPHY FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. By Tudor Jenks.

A helpful book on the subject of photography. It points the way to avoid
failures, and to produce desirable effects. 12 to 18.


  SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN BOY, THE. By Alexander R. Bond.

Gives easy directions for bridge-building, making snow shoes, sledges,
ice boats, tells how to make a windmill, etc. 12 to 16.


  SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN BOY AT SCHOOL, THE. By A. Russell Bond.

A sequel to “The Scientific American Boy.” It continues the narrative
and describes the construction of various devices and apparatus with
reference to outdoor use. 14 to 16.


  STORY OF GREAT INVENTIONS, THE. By Elmer E. Burns.

Tells about the greatest basic discoveries from Archimedes and his lever
to Marconi and wireless telegraphy. 14 to 18.


  THINGS A BOY SHOULD KNOW ABOUT ELECTRICITY. By Thomas M. St. John.

Facts about electricity and how to conduct easy experiments. 12 to 16.


  THINGS WORTH DOING AND HOW TO DO THEM. By Lina and Adelia B. Beard.

Shows how to make things for the home, fairs, etc., and gives ideas for
parties and entertainments. 12 to 16.


  WHAT A GIRL CAN MAKE AND DO; OR, NEW IDEAS FOR WORK AND PLAY. By Lina
      and Adelia B. Beard.

Gives ideas for tableaux, valentines, musical instruments, paper work,
etc. 10 to 14.


  WONDER BOOK OF THE ATMOSPHERE, THE. By Professor Edwin James Houston.

This book covers such matters as the shape and height of the atmosphere;
the wonders of climate; the methods of forecasting the weather; storms,
water-spouts, etc. 14 to 18.


  WONDER BOOK OF VOLCANOES AND EARTHQUAKES, THE. By Professor Edwin
      James Houston.

Describes and explains the famous eruptions from the time of the
destruction of Pompeii to the present. 14 to 18.


  YOUNG FOLKS’ CYCLOPÆDIAS. By John D. Champlin.


    COMMON THINGS.

    PERSONS AND PLACES.

    GAMES AND SPORTS.

    LITERATURE AND ART.

    NATURAL HISTORY.

Specially prepared for young people. Each volume complete in itself.




                            _Bible Stories_


  BIBLE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, THE. Arranged from the King James’ version.

The idea is to make the Bible more attractive to boys and girls. The
verse numbering is omitted, as are genealogies and such parts of the
Book as are not included by parents when reading aloud to their
children. Each incident or story forms a chapter as in a secular book. 8
to 14.


  BIBLE PICTURES AND WHAT THEY TEACH US. By Charles Foster.

A series from four hundred scenes from the Bible, each of which has a
short explanation. 6 to 9.


  BIBLE STORIES: OLD TESTAMENT. By Richard G. Moulton.


  BIBLE STORIES: NEW TESTAMENT. By Richard G. Moulton.

The Modern Reader’s Bible. 10 to 14.


  BIBLE STORIES. Re-told by L. L. Weedon.

The first half is devoted to the Old Testament and the second half to
the New. Well illustrated. 6 to 9.


  CHRIST LEGENDS. By Selma Lagerlöf.

A series of stories dealing with scenes from the life of Christ.
Translated from the Swedish. 11 to 14.


  CHRIST STORY, THE. By Eva March Tappan.

A simple account of the life of our Lord written for children and
illustrated from classic masterpieces. 9 to 12.


  DAVID THE GIANT KILLER. By Emily S. Cohen.

A Jewish grandmother tells stories from the Old Testament and the
Apocrypha. 10 to 12.


  FIRST STEPS FOR LITTLE FEET. By Charles Foster.

Designed to give very little children their first lessons in the Bible.
4 to 7.


  FROM SLAVERY TO FREEDOM. By S. B. Macy.

Stories from the Books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and
Joshua. Follows “In the Beginning.” 8 to 12.


  GARDEN OF EDEN, THE. By George Hodges.

Illustrated. Stories from the first nine books of the Old Testament. 8
to 11.


  GO-TO-BED STORIES. By Lettice Bell.

Not all stories from the Bible, but stories with a strong religious
trend. 6 to 8.


  IN GOD’S GARDEN. By Amy Steedman, with 16 reproductions in color from
      Italian masterpieces.

Stories of the Saints for children. 9 to 12.


  IN THE BEGINNING. By S. B. Macy.

The Book of Genesis told to children. 8 to 12.


  KINDERGARTEN STORIES FOR THE SUNDAY SCHOOL AND HOME. By Laura E.
      Cragin.

Stories from the New Testament, arranged so that they might give the
life and works of Christ chronologically. 4 to 8.


  LITTLE TALKS TO LITTLE PEOPLE. By James M. Farrar.

Contains a little talk for every Sunday in the year, all being arranged
according to the seasons. 8 to 11.


  MY FATHER’S BUSINESS. By Charles E. Jefferson.

A series of ten sermons to children. 10 to 14.


  NARRATIVE BIBLE, THE. Edited by Clifton Johnson. Illustrated by
      Gustave Doré.

The narrative portions of the Bible condensed into a volume of moderate
length, without any essential change other than that of omission. 12 to
16.


  NEVER OLD STORIES. By Lettice Bell.

Stories from the book of the Prophet Jeremiah, planned so that the child
will hunt up texts. 7 to 9.


  NEW LINE UPON LINE, THE. By M. Mortimer. Edited by J. E. Hodder
      Williams. Illustrated in colors.

The aim of this book is to lead children to understand and to enjoy the
Scriptures. Easy questions follow each chapter. 5 to 8.


  NEW PEEP OF DAY, THE. By M. Mortimer. Edited by J. E. Hodder Williams.

A first book of religious instruction for little children. 4 to 6.


  OLD, OLD STORY BOOK, AN. Compiled from the Old Testament by Eva March
      Tappan.

Well selected stories from the Old Testament. 10 to 12.


  OLD STORIES OF THE EAST. By James Baldwin.

Twelve stories from the Old Testament re-told. For supplementary
reading. 8 to 10.


  OLD TESTAMENT STORIES. By Laura Ella Cragin.

Stories that sustain the interest, and the child who learns them will
have an excellent knowledge of the narrative thread of such Books as
Samuel and Kings. 9 to 12.


  SAINTS IN STORY, THE. By Mrs. C. R. Peers.

St. Jerome, St. George, and St. Margaret. 11 to 14.


  STORIES FROM THE LIFE OF CHRIST. By Janet H. Kelman.

(“Told to the Children” Series.) Told as nearly as possible in Bible
language. 8 to 10.


  STORIES FROM THE OLD TESTAMENT. By Harriet S. Beale.

An excellent collection of Old Testament stories. 8 to 12.


  STORY OF THE BIBLE, THE. By Charles Foster.

A simple version of the main portions of the Bible. 9 to 13.


  STORY OF THE GOSPEL, THE. By Charles Foster.

The New Testament in a continuous story. 6 to 9.


  TELLING BIBLE STORIES. By Louise Seymour Houghton.

Helps and suggestions to parents and teachers for the telling of Old
Testament stories to children.


  WHEN THE KING CAME. By Rev. George Hodges.

Stories from the four Gospels. 9 to 13.




                                _Poetry_


  BALLADS FOR LITTLE FOLKS. By Alice and Phœbe Cary.

The Cary sisters were born in a farmhouse in Ohio, and in these poems
they tell of the old homestead, their playmates, the flowers, and
animals which they loved. 7 to 10.


  BOOK OF FAMOUS VERSE. Selected by Agnes Repplier.

Contains poems of a martial strain, brave deeds, ballads, and lyrics. 12
to 16.


  BOOK OF VERSES FOR CHILDREN. Compiled by Edward V. Lucas.

A good collection of more than 200 poems. 7 to 14.


  CHILD LIFE IN POETRY. Edited by John G. Whittier.

A collection of poems for children. 6 to 12.


  CHILDREN’S BOOK OF POETRY. Compiled by Henry T. Coates.

A popular collection. 8 to 12.


  CHILDREN’S TREASURY OF LYRICAL POETRY. Edited by Francis Turner
      Palgrave.

A very fine collection. 12 to 16.


  CHILD’S GARDEN OF VERSES, A. By Robert Louis Stevenson.

The editions illustrated by Jessie Willcox Smith, Florence Storer, and
Bessie Pease Gutman. 4 to 8.


  DAYS AND DEEDS—POETRY. Compiled by Burton E. Stevenson.

Commemorative verse arranged for holidays and seasons. 10 to 14.


  GOLDEN NUMBERS. Compiled by Kate Douglas Wiggin and Nora A. Smith.

A book of verse for youth. 12 to 16.


  GOLDEN STAIRCASE, THE. Edited by Loney Chisholm.

Contains two hundred poems. 5 to 14.


  LYRA HEROICA. Compiled by William E. Henley.

Contains stirring English and American ballads. 12 to 14.


  GOLDEN POEMS. Compiled by Francis F. Browne.

Contains five hundred selections from three hundred writers. 14 to 18.


  NONSENSE BOOKS. By Edward Lear.

An unequalled collection of nonsense rhymes, songs, stories, botany,
alphabets, and limericks. 6 to 12.


  NURSERY RHYME BOOK, THE. Edited by Andrew Lang.

An excellent collection, well illustrated by L. Leslie Brooke. 3 to 6.


  POEMS CHILDREN LOVE. Edited by P. W. Coussens.

Contains poems arranged and graded according to ages, being thus very
helpful to parents and teachers. Includes numerous poems not to be found
in other collections. 4 to 16.


  POEMS OF CHILDHOOD. By Eugene Field.

Eugene Field understood the peculiar ideals and fancies of the little
ones, and is known as the children’s poet. The book is admirably
illustrated by Maxfield Parrish. 4 to 8.


  POSY RING. Compiled by Kate Douglas Wiggin and Nora A. Smith.

A book of verse for children. 7 to 11.


  RHYMES AND JINGLES. By Mary Mapes Dodge.

Verses of the sort a child learns easily. 4 to 7.


  SING-SONG. By Christina G. Rossetti.

Nursery rhymes well illustrated. 4 to 7.




               _Supplementary Reading For Boys and Girls_


  ACHILLES AND HECTOR. By Agnes Cook Gale.

Homer’s “Iliad” re-told for boys and girls. 9 to 12.


  AMERICAN INDIANS. By Frederick Starr.

A book descriptive of the Indians of this continent. 10 to 12.


  ASGARD STORIES. By Mary H. Foster and Mabel H. Cummings.

Tales from Norse mythology. 8 to 10.


  BA-LONG-LONG, THE IGOROT BOY. By Albert E. Jenks.

Tells about primitive life and primitive people. 10 to 12.


  BOOK OF NATURE MYTHS. By Florence Holbrook.

Tells how fire was brought to the Indians, why the sea is salt, why the
woodpecker’s head is red, etc. 8 to 10.


  CHILD STORIES FROM THE MASTERS. By Maud Menefee (Mrs. E. L. Bradley).

In simple language Miss Menefee has told the stories of Browning’s
Pippa, and Saul and David, of Dante’s Beatrice, and of Goethe’s Wilhelm
Meister, and Mignon. 7 to 9.


  CHILDREN OF THE WIGWAM. By Annie Chase.

Stories of Indian children. 6 to 9.


  CITY OF THE SEVEN HILLS. By Caroline H. Harding and Samuel B. Harding.

Descriptive of the manners and customs of ancient Rome. 11 to 13.


  CLASSIC STORIES FOR THE LITTLE ONES. Edited by Lida B. McMurray.

Adapted from popular fairy tales. 6 to 8.


  COAL AND THE COAL MINES. By Homer Greene.

The story of coal, its formation, discovery, and use. 12 to 14.


  CONQUEST OF THE OLD NORTHWEST, THE. By James Baldwin.

Tells of the struggle between the French and the English and the
conquest of the Indians. 12 to 16.


  DISCOVERERS AND EXPLORERS. By Edward R. Shaw.

Tells about Balboa, Magellan, Hudson, Cortes, etc. 10 to 12.


  DISCOVERY OF THE OLD NORTHWEST, THE. By James Baldwin.

The story of French explorations of the great lakes and of the great
rivers of the Northwest. 12 to 16.


  EACH AND ALL; OR, THE SEVEN LITTLE SISTERS PROVE THEIR SISTERHOOD. By
      Jane Andrews.

A companion book to “Seven Little Sisters.” 8 to 10.


  EARLY CAVE-MEN, THE. By Katharine E. Dopp.

Gives the young reader a good idea of the early progress of the human
race. 8 to 10.


  FIFTY FAMOUS STORIES RETOLD. By James Baldwin.

A good collection of legends and historical tales. 8 to 10.


  FOUR OLD GREEKS. By Jennie Hall.

An introduction to Greek mythology. 10 to 12.


  HEROES OF THE MIDDLE WEST. By Mary Hartwell Catherwood.

Tells of Joliet, Marquette, La Salle, and others. 12 to 14.


  HIAWATHA PRIMER, THE. By Florence Holbrook.

Stories of Longfellow’s Hiawatha in simple language. 8 to 10.


  GODS AND HEROES. By R. E. Francillon.

A very good collection of the Greek and Roman myths. 7 to 9.


  INDIANS AND PIONEERS. By Blanch E. Hazard and Samuel T. Dutton.

About prehistoric America, mound builders, discoveries, etc. 12 to 14.


  LAND OF THE SHINING MOUNTAINS. By Katherine B. Judson.

A descriptive and historical account of Montana. It shows the land as it
was before being inhabited by the white man, then gives an account of
the Lewis and Clark Expedition, deals with the Indian tribes, tells
about Custer’s last fight, and vividly pictures the perils of the
trappers and pony express riders, and of the gold rush. 12 to 14.


  LIFE STORIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. A series of popular biographical,
      historical, and legendary romances. Translated from the German by
      George P. Upton.


    ARNOLD OF WINKELRIED.

    BARBAROSSA.

    BEETHOVEN.

    CHARLEMAGNE.

    DUKE OF BRITTANY, THE.

    ELIZABETH, EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA AND QUEEN OF HUNGARY.

    EMPEROR WILLIAM I.

    EUGENIE, EMPRESS OF THE FRENCH.

    FREDERICK THE GREAT.

    FRITHJOF SAGA.

    GUDRUN.

    HERMAN AND THUSNELDA.

    JOHANN SEBASTIAN BACH.

    JOSEPH HAYDN.

    LITTLE DAUPHIN, THE.

    LOUISE, QUEEN OF PRUSSIA.

    MAID OF ORLEANS, THE.

    MARIA THERESA.

    MARIE ANTOINETTE’S YOUTH.

    MOZART.

    NIBELUNGS, THE.

    PRINCE EUGENE, THE NOBLE KNIGHT.

    QUEEN MARIA SOPHIA OF NAPLES, A FORGOTTEN HEROINE.

    SWISS HEROES, THE.

    UNDINE.

    WILLIAM OF ORANGE.

    WILLIAM TELL.

    YOUTH OF THE GREAT ELECTOR.

These compact, handy volumes present, in simple narrative form, events
in the lives of famous characters, historic or legendary.


  LATER CAVE-MEN, THE. By Katharine E. Dopp.

Follows “The Early Cave-Men.” 8 to 10.


  LITTLE FOLKS OF MANY LANDS. By Lulu Maude Chance.

In an imaginary journey many foreign children are visited. Tells about
Indian, Eskimo, Dutch, African, Filipino, and Japanese children. 9 to
11.


  MADAM HOW AND LADY WHY. By Charles Kingsley.

Gives the causes for geological changes and teaches children to look for
them. 10 to 12.


  NORSE STORIES. By Hamilton Wright Mabie.

One of the best collections of Norse myths. 9 to 12.


  NORTHLAND HEROES. By Florence Holbrook.

Stories of Fridthjof and Beowulf. 9 to 12.


  PIONEERS OF THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY. By Charles A. McMurray.

Tells about Joliet, Marquette, La Salle, Hennepin, Boone, Lincoln, De
Soto, etc. 10 to 12.


  PIONEERS OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS AND THE WEST. By Charles A. McMurray.

Expeditions of Lewis and Clark, Fremont, Coronado, etc. 10 to 12.


  PIONEERS ON LAND AND SEA. By Charles A. McMurray.

Tells about Raleigh, Capt. John Smith, Columbus, Magellan, Ponce de
Leon, Washington, etc. 10 to 12.


  SEVEN LITTLE SISTERS WHO LIVE ON THE ROUND BALL THAT FLOATS IN THE
      AIR. By Jane Andrews.

Teaches children that all are brothers and sisters who help one another.
8 to 10.


  STORIES OF GREAT AMERICANS FOR LITTLE AMERICANS. By Edward Eggleston.

Personal anecdotes of some of our great historical characters. 8 to 10.


  STORIES OF INDIAN CHILDREN. By Mary H. Husted.

Tells about the family life of the Indians in early times. 8 to 10.


  STORIES OF OLD GREECE. By Emma M. Firth.

Some myths of gods and heroes. 8 to 10.


  STORIES OF STARLAND. By Mary Proctor.

Stories of legends about sun, moon, and stars. 9 to 12.


  STORY OF THE CHOSEN PEOPLE, THE. By Hélène A. Guerber.

The story of the Jews to the time of the fall of Jerusalem. 10 to 12.


  STORY OF THE GREEKS, THE. By Hélène A. Guerber.

Classic legends in narrative form. 12 to 14.


  STORY OF THE INDIANS OF NEW ENGLAND. By Alma H. Burton.

Gives an excellent picture of the New England Indian. 12 to 16.


  STORY OF THE MIDDLE AGES. By Samuel B. Harding.

Tells about the ancient Germans, the Franks, feudalism, the exploits of
the Norsemen, and the Crusades. 12 to 14.


  TEN BOYS WHO LIVED ON THE ROAD FROM LONG AGO TO NOW. By Jane Andrews.

Gives to children a good idea of the progress of civilization. 8 to 10.


  TREE-DWELLERS, THE. By Katharine E. Dopp.

Tells about primitive man. 8 to 10.


  VIKING TALES. By Jennie Hall.

Icelandic sagas well re-told. 9 to 10.




                           _Index to Titles_


 A Apple Pie, 84.

 Abraham Lincoln, 112.

 According to Season, 146.

 Achilles and Hector, 175.

 Across the Campus, 23.

 Admiral’s Caravan, The, 98.

 Adventures of a Brownie, The, 98.

 Adventures of a Doll, The, 98.

 Adventures of Jimmy Brown, The, 35.

 Adventures of Tom Sawyer, The, 57.

 Æneid for Boys and Girls, 130.

 Æsop, Fables of, 98.

 African Game Trails, 146.

 Age of Chivalry, The, 119.

 Age of Fable, 130.

 “Airship Boys” Series, The, 41.

 Alfgar the Dane, 61.

 Alhambra, The, 112.

 Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, 1.

 American Boy’s Handy Book, The, 155.

 American Girl’s Handy Book, The, 155.

 American Indians, 175.

 American Natural History, 146.

 Among the Camps, 35.

 Among the Farmyard People, 146.

 Among the Meadow People, 146.

 Among the Moths and Butterflies, 147.

 Among the Pond People, 147.

 Andersen’s Fairy Stories, 130.

 Animal Heroes, 147.

 Annapolis Series, The, 57.

 Anne Nelson, a Little Maid of Province Town, 6.

 Anne of Avonlea, 23.

 Anne of Green Gables, 23.

 Arabella and Araminta, 84.

 Arabian Nights, The, 130.

 Arkansas Bear, The, 32.

 Arnold of Winkelreid, 179.

 Around the World in the Yacht “Sunbeam,” 112.

 Around the World with the Battleships, 58.

 Art Crafts for Beginners, 155.

 Arthur Bonnicastle, 78.

 Asgard Stories, 175.

 At the Back of the North Wind, 130.

 Aunt Louisa’s Book of Wonder Tales, 131.

 Aztec Treasure-House, The, 78.


 Babes and Birds, 84.

 Babes and Blossoms, 84.

 Baby Days, 84.

 Ballads for Little Folks, 171.

 Ba-long-long, the Igorot Boy, 175.

 Barbarossa, 179.

 Bar B Boys, 58.

 Barnaby Lee, 41.

 Battling for Atlanta, 56.

 Beach Patrol, The, 42.

 Bears of Blue River, The, 42.

 Beasts of the Field, 147.

 Beautiful Joe, 98.

 Bed-Time Book, The, 85.

 “Bed-Time Stories” Series, 98, 99.

 Bee-Man of Orn, 131.

 Bee People, The, 147.

 Beethoven, 179.

 Behind the Line, 58.

 Ben Comee, 42.

 Ben-Hur, 112.

 Benjamin Bunny, Tale of, 94.

 Best Poems and Essays of Edgar Allan Poe, 129.

 Best Tales of Edgar Allan Poe, 129.

 Betty Leicester, 13.

 Betty Leicester’s Christmas, 13.

 Between the Lines, 78.

 Bible for Young People, The, 165.

 Bible Pictures and What They Teach Us, 165.

 Bible Stories, 165.

 Bible Stories: New Testament, 165.

 Bible Stories: Old Testament, 165.

 Big Brother, The, 42.

 Bimbi Stories, 106.

 Biography of a Prairie Girl, The, 23.

 Birch-Tree Fairy Book, The, 131.

 Bird Jingles, 85.

 Bird Life, 147.

 Bird Neighbors, 148.

 Birds and Bees, and other Papers, 148.

 Bird’s Christmas Carol, The, 106.

 Bishop’s Shadow, The, 58.

 Black Arrow, The, 59.

 Black Bear, The, 148.

 Black Beauty, 99.

 Black Bruin: The Biography of a Bear, 148.

 Black Rock, 78.

 Blowing Away of Mr. Bushy Tail, The, 85.

 Blue Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Bob’s Cave Boys, 35.

 Bob’s Hill Braves, The, 35.

 Book of Famous Verse, 171.

 Book of King Arthur and his Noble Knights, 120.

 Book of Nature Myths, 175.

 Book of Romance, The, 120.

 Book of Verses for Children, 171.

 Boots and Saddles, 59.

 Borrowed Sister, A, 6.

 Boy Blue and his Friends, 85.

 Boy Craftsman, The, 156.

 Boy Electrician, The, 156.

 Boyhood in Norway, 42.

 Boy Life of Napoleon, The, 42.

 Boy Life on the Prairie, 59.

 Boy Mineral Collectors, The, 156.

 Boy of the First Empire, 42.

 Boy Pioneers, The: Sons of Daniel Boone, 156.

 Boy Wanted, 59.

 Boy with the U. S. Foresters, The, 59.

 Boy with the U. S. Survey, The, 60.

 Boynton Pluck, The, 35.

 Boys and Girls from Dickens, 113.

 Boys of Bob’s Hill, The, 36.

 Boys of ’76, 113.

 Boy’s Book of Airships, The, 156.

 Boy’s Book of Inventions, The, 156.

 Boy’s Book of Locomotives, The, 157.

 Boy’s Book of Model Aeroplanes, 157.

 Boy’s Book of Railways, The, 157.

 Boy’s Book of Steamships, The, 157.

 Boy’s Book of Warships, The, 157.

 Boy’s Cuchulain, The, 131.

 Boy’s Froissart, The, 43.

 Boy’s King Arthur, The, 120.

 Boy’s Life of Abraham Lincoln, 43.

 Boy’s Percy, The, 43.

 Boy’s Second Book of Inventions, 158.

 Boy’s Town, A, 43.

 Boy’s Workshop, The, 158.

 Box Furniture, 155.

 Brown Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Browns, The, 107.

 Building the Nation, 113.

 Bunnikins-Bunnies in Camp, The, 85.

 Bunnikins-Bunnies in Europe, The, 86.

 Bunny Stories, 86.


 Cadet Days, 60.

 Caldecott’s Picture Books, 86.

 Caldwell’s Boys and Girls at Home, 99.

 Campaigning with Crook, and Stories of Army Life, 78.

 Camp Life in the Woods, 149.

 Campmates, 49.

 Canoemates, 49.

 Captain Chub, 44.

 Captain January, 6.

 Captain June, 32.

 Captain of the Crew, 60.

 Captain of the School Team, 43.

 Captain Phil, 60.

 Captain Polly, 13.

 Captain Polly of Annapolis, 24.

 Captain Sam, 44.

 Captains Courageous, 60.

 Captain’s Daughter, The, 23.

 Carpentry for Boys, 158.

 Carrots, 6.

 Castle Blair, 113.

 Cat Stories, 99.

 Cattle Ranch to College, 61.

 Celtic Fairy Tales, 131.

 Century Book for Young Americans, 113.

 Century Book of Famous Americans, 113.

 Chaplet of Pearls, The, 114.

 Charlemagne, 179.

 Chemical History of a Candle, The, 158.

 Child Life in Poetry, 171.

 Child Stories from the Masters, 176.

 Child’s Book of Stories, A, 131.

 Child’s Christmas, The, 99.

 Child’s English Literature, The, 114.

 Child’s Garden of Verses, A, 172.

 Child’s Hansel and Gretel, The, 87.

 Child’s History of England, 114.

 Child’s Rip Van Winkle, The, 87.

 Children of the Wigwam, 176.

 Children’s Book, The, 99.

 Children’s Book of Poetry, 171.

 Children’s Book of the Stars, The, 158.

 Children’s Life of Abraham Lincoln, 114.

 Children’s Store, The, 101.

 Children’s Treasury of Lyrical Poetry, 172.

 Chinese Boy and Girl, The, 100.

 Chinese Mother Goose Rhymes, 87.

 Christ Legends, 166.

 Christ Story, The, 166.

 Christmas Angel, The, 106.

 Christmas Carol, A, 115.

 Christmas Every Day, 1, 100.

 Chronicles of Aescendune, The, 61.

 City of the Seven Hills, 176.

 Classic Stories for the Little Ones, 176.

 Cliff Sterling, Captain of the Nine, 44.

 Clover, 13.

 Coal and the Coal Mines, 176.

 Cock-a-Doodle Hill, 13.

 Common Things, 164.

 Comrades of the Trails, 62.

 Conduct Stories, 100.

 Confidences—Talks with a Young Girl Concerning Herself, 24.

 Conquest of the Old Northwest, The, 176.

 Court of King Arthur, The, 119.

 Crane’s Picture Books, 87.

 Cricket on the Hearth, The, 115.

 Crimson Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Crimson Sweater, The, 44.

 Cruise of the Cachelot, 62.

 Cruise of the Canoe Club, The, 36.

 Cruise of the “Ghost,” The, 36.

 Cuore: An Italian School-Boy’s Journal, 36.


 Dale Girls, The, 24.

 Dandelion Cottage, 14.

 Danish Fairy and Folk Tales, 132.

 Daughter of Freedom, A, 24.

 David Copperfield, 115.

 David the Giant Killer, 166.

 Davy and the Goblin, 100.

 Day: Her Year in New York, 29.

 Day in a Child’s Life, 88.

 Days and Deeds—Poetry, 172.

 Dear Daughter Dorothy, and Dorothy and Anton, 7.

 Decatur and Somers, 45.

 Deerslayer, The, 67.

 Dick Among the Lumber-Jacks, 62.

 Dick in the Everglades, 62.

 Discoverers and Explorers, 177.

 Discovery of the Old Northwest, The, 177.

 Dog of Flanders, 106.

 Dolly’s Double, 1.

 Donkey John of the Toy Valley, 106.

 Don Quixote, 115.

 Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz, 104.

 Dorothy Brooke’s School Days, 24.

 Dorothy Brooke’s Vacation, 25.

 Dorymates, 49.

 Dove in the Eagle’s Nest, 115.

 Down to the Sea, 79.

 Dozen from Lakerim, The, 47.

 Drum-Beat of the Nation, 116.

 Duke of Brittany, The, 179.


 Each and All, 177.

 Eagle Badge, 63.

 Early Cave-Men, The, 177.

 Editha’s Burglar, 7.

 Edwy the Fair, 61.

 Eight Cousins, 116.

 Electricity for Everybody, 158.

 Elinor’s College Career, 25.

 Elizabeth, Empress of Austria and Queen of Hungary, 179.

 Elizabeth’s Charm-String, 14.

 Elm-Tree Fairy Book, The, 132.

 Emerald City of Oz, The, 104.

 Emperor William I., 179.

 Empire Story, An, 116.

 English Fairy Tales, 132.

 Eugenie, Empress of the French, 179.

 Eyebright, 7.

 Eye Spy, 149.


 Fairy-Land of Science, 149.

 Fairy Tales from Far Japan, 132.

 Fairy Tales of All Nations, 133.

 Faith Gartney’s Girlhood, 25.

 Farm Book, The, 88.

 Farm that Glue Made, The, 100.

 Farthest North, 79.

 Father Goose, 88.

 Feats on the Fiord, 45, 116.

 Felicia, 7.

 Felicia Visits, 7.

 Felicia’s Friends, 7.

 Field and Forest Handy Book, The, 159.

 Fifty Famous Stories Retold, 177.

 Fighting with Fremont, 63.

 Finger Plays, 88.

 Finn, the Wolfhound, 63.

 Firelight Stories, 88.

 Firelight Stories, 99.

 First Across the Continent, 63.

 First Book of Birds, The, 149.

 First Steps for Little Feet, 166.

 First Years in Handicraft, 159.

 Five Minute Stories, 88.

 Flight of Pony Baker, The, 45.

 Flipwing the Spy, 100.

 Flopsy Bunnies, Tale of, 94.

 Forest Runners, The, 63.

 For the Children’s Hour, 89.

 For the Honor of the School, 45.

 Forward Pass, 45.

 “Four Corners” Series, 14.

 Four MacNicols, The, 36.

 Four Old Greeks, 177.

 Frederick the Great, 179.

 Freedom Triumphant, 116.

 Frithjof Saga, 179.

 Frolics at Fairmount, 25.

 From Atlanta to the Sea, 56.

 From Sioux to Susan, 25.

 From Slavery to Freedom, 166.

 Fun that Glue Made, The, 101.

 Fur Seal’s Tooth, The, 50.

 Further Adventures of Pinky Perkins, The, 46.


 Games and Sports, 164.

 Games that Glue Played, The, 100.

 Garden of Eden, The, 167.

 Garland for Girls, A, 21.

 General Nelson’s Scout, 56.

 George Washington, 116.

 Girl of ’76, 14.

 Girl Wanted, The, 26.

 Girls of Fairmount, The, 26.

 Girls of Gardenville, The, 15.

 Girls Who Became Famous, 15.

 Glengarry School Days, 64.

 Glenloch Girls, 15.

 Glenloch Girls Abroad, 15.

 Glue Series, The, 100, 101.

 Gods and Heroes, 178.

 Golden Goose Book, 89.

 Golden Goose, The, and other Fairy Tales, 133.

 Golden Numbers, 172.

 Golden Poems, 173.

 Golden Staircase, The, 172.

 Golden Windows, 101.

 Goops, and How to be Them, 89.

 Go-to-Bed Stories, 167.

 Grandfather’s Chair, 117.

 Granny’s Wonderful Chair, 133.

 Grandpa’s Little Girls, 2.

 Grandpa’s Little Girls and Their Friends, 2.

 Grandpa’s Little Girls at School, 2.

 Grandpa’s Little Girls’ Houseboat Party, 2.

 Great Aeroplane, The, 64.

 Greek Heroes, The, 133.

 Green Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Grey Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Gudrun, 179.

 Guess, 89.

 Guess Again, 89.

 Gulliver’s Travels, 117.


 Half a Hundred Hero Tales, 117.

 Half-Back, The, 46.

 Hans Brinker, or the Silver Skates, 117.

 Harding of St. Timothy’s, 46.

 Harding’s Luck, 37.

 Harold, the Last of the Saxon Kings, 117.

 Harper’s Electricity Book for Boys, 159.

 Harper’s Handy Book for Girls, 159.

 Harper’s Indoor Book for Boys, 159.

 Harper’s Outdoor Book for Boys, 160.

 Harry’s Island, 44.

 Hauff’s Fairy Tales, 134.

 Head Coach, The, 64.

 Hearts and Coronets, 26.

 Hector, my Dog, 64.

 Heidi, 15.

 Heir of Redclyffe, The, 118.

 Helen’s Babies, 118.

 Helmet and Spear, 118.

 Hereward, the Wake, 79.

 Herman and Thusnelda, 179.

 Herodotus for Boys and Girls, 118.

 Heroes of Chivalry and Romance, 134.

 Heroes of Iceland, 134.

 Heroes of the Middle West, 178.

 Heroes of the Olden Times, 134.

 Heroic Legends, 118.

 Hiawatha Primer, The, 178.

 Historic Girlhoods, 16.

 Historic Inventions, 160.

 Hitherto, 26.

 Hollow Tree and Deep Woods Book, The, 101.

 Hollow Tree Snowed-In Book, The, 101.

 Home-Comers, The, 16.

 Home Fairy Tales, 134.

 Hoosier Schoolboy, The, 46.

 Horse Fair, The, 135.

 Horseman of the Plain, The, 64.

 Horses Nine, 79.

 House in the Water, The, 149.

 House that Glue Built, The, 101.

 How it Flies, 160.

 How it is Done, 160.

 How it is Made, 161.

 How it Works, 161.

 How to Know the Ferns, 150.

 How Two Boys Made Their Own Electrical Apparatus, 161.

 Huckleberry Finn, 65.

 Hugh Gwyeth, 65.

 Hunting in British East Africa, 150.


 Iliad for Boys and Girls, The, 135.

 In Closed Territory, 150.

 Indian Boyhood, 46.

 Indian Boys and Girls, 90.

 Indian Child Life, 90.

 Indian Fairy Tales, 135.

 Indians and Pioneers, 178.

 Indoor and Outdoor Recreations for Girls, 161.

 In God’s Garden, 167.

 In Lincoln Green, 65.

 In Story Land, 89.

 In Texas with Davy Crockett, 65.

 In the Beginning, 167.

 In the Child’s World, 89.

 In the High Valley, 16.

 In the Sargasso Sea, 79.

 Island Story, An, 119.

 Ivanhoe, 65.

 Ivar, the Viking, 80.


 J. Cole, 32.

 Jack and Jill, 119.

 Jack Ballister’s Fortunes, 66.

 Jack Collerton’s Engine, 46.

 Jack of All Trades, 161.

 “Jack” Series, The, 65.

 Jacqueline of the Carrier Pigeons, 16.

 Jan of the Windmill, 37.

 Janet and her Dear Phebe, 8.

 Janet at Odds, 29.

 Janet: Her Winter in Quebec, 29.

 Janet’s College Career, 26.

 Japanese Fairy Tales, 135.

 Jeb Hutton, 66.

 Jemima Puddle-Duck, Tale of, 94.

 Jimmy Brown Trying to Find Europe, 37.

 Joan of Arc, 136.

 Johann Sebastian Bach, 179.

 John Halifax, Gentleman, 119.

 Johnny Crow’s Garden, 90.

 Johnny Crow’s Party, 90.

 John of the Woods, 37.

 Jolly Good Summer, A, 107.

 “Jolly Good Times” Series, The, 107.

 Joseph Haydn, 179.

 Jo’s Boys, 119.

 Juan and Juanita, 107.

 Judy, 17.

 Jungle Book, The, 107.

 Junior in the Line, A, 67.

 Just So Stories, 102.


 Katrina, 26.

 Kiddie Land, 90.

 Kidnapped Campers, The, 47.

 Kim, 80.

 Kindergarten Stories for the Sunday School and Home, 167.

 Kindergarten Story Book, The, 90.

 Kindred to the Wild, The, 150.

 King Arthur, Stories of, 119, 120.

 King of the Golden River, 135.

 King of the Thundering Herd, 150.

 King Who Never Died, The, 120.

 Kingsford, Quarter, 47.

 Knickerbocker’s History of New York, 121.

 Knighthood in Germ and Flower, 136.

 Knight of the White Cross, A, 47.

 Knightly Legends of Wales, 120.

 Knights of Art, 121.

 Knights of the Round Table, The, 120.


 Lady Hollyhock, 162.

 “Lakerim” Series, 47.

 Land of Pluck, The, 27.

 Land of the Long Night, The, 67.

 Land of the Shining Mountains, 178.

 Lass of the Silver Sword, The, 17.

 Last Days of Pompeii, 121.

 Last Fairy Tales, 136.

 Last of the Barons, The, 121.

 Last of the Mohicans, The, 67.

 Last of the Peterkins, The, 121.

 Later Cave-Men, The, 180.

 League of the Signet-Ring, The, 17.

 Leatherstocking Tales, The, 67, 68.

 Legends and Stories of Italy, 137.

 Legends of Charlemagne, 137.

 Legends of King Arthur and his Court, 120.

 Legends of the Middle Ages, 137.

 Legends of Switzerland, 137.

 Light Horse Harry’s Legion, 47.

 Light Princess, The, 137.

 Life of Abraham Lincoln for Boys and Girls, The, 107.

 Life Stories for Young People, 179, 180.

 Lisbeth Longfrock, 108.

 Listen to Me Stories, 102.

 Literature and Art, 164.

 Little Citizen, A, 48.

 Little Colonel Series, The, 17, 18.

 Little Colonial Dame, A, 8.

 Little Country Girl, A, 18.

 Little Dauphin, The, 179.

 Little Daughter of the Revolution, A, 8.

 Little Folk in Feathers and Fur, 151.

 Little Folks of Many Lands, 180.

 Little Foresters, The, 32.

 Little Girl Next Door, The, 3.

 Little Girl of Long Ago, A, 3.

 Little Heroine of Illinois, A, 8.

 Little King, The, 68.

 Little Lady at the Fall of Quebec, 18.

 Little Lame Prince, The, 32.

 Little Lord Fauntleroy, 108.

 Little Men, 121.

 Little Metacomet, 33.

 Little Miss Rosamond, 3.

 Little Mr. Thimblefinger, 102.

 Little Mother and Georgie, 91.

 Little Princess, A, 8.

 Little Princess of the Pines, 9.

 Little Princess of Tonopah, 9.

 Little Queen of Hearts, A, 3.

 Little Rosebud, 3.

 Little Stories about Little Animals for Little Children, 91.

 Little Talks to Little People, 167.

 Little Women, 19.

 Lives of the Fur Folk, 151.

 Lives of the Hunted, 151.

 Lone Patrol, The, 48.

 Long Ago in Greece, 138.

 Long Trail, The, 68.

 Lorna Doone, 122.

 Lost in the Jungle, 48.

 Louise, Queen of Prussia, 179.

 Loyal Little Red-Coat, A, 33.

 Loyal Traitor, A, 68.

 Luck of the Dudley Grahams, The, 19.

 Lulu’s Library, 102.

 Lure of the Labrador Wild, 80.

 Lyra Heroica, 172.


 Madame How and Lady Why, 180.

 Maid of Orleans, The, 179.

 Maida’s Little Shop, 9.

 Making the Freshman Team, 68.

 Malory’s King Arthur and his Knights, 120.

 Man Without a Country, The, 68.

 Marching to Victory, 122.

 Margot, the Court Shoemaker’s Daughter, 9.

 Maria Theresa, 179.

 Marie Antoinette’s Youth, 179.

 Marigold Garden, 91.

 Martin Hyde, the Duke’s Messenger, 48.

 Marvellous Land of Oz, The, 103.

 Master of the Strong Hearts, 48.

 Master Skylark, 49.

 “Mate” Series, The, 49.

 Mayken, 10.

 Meg and Others, 4.

 Men of Iron, 49.

 Merrylips, 19.

 Micah Clarke, 80.

 Miss Minerva and William Green Hill, 122.

 Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle, Tale of, 94.

 Mrs. Tittlemouse, Tale of, 94.

 Mr. Jeremy Fisher, Tale of, 94.

 Mr. Rabbit at Home, 102.

 Mr. Stubb’s Brother, 37.

 Moni, the Goat Boy, 38.

 Monkey that Would not Kill, The, 108.

 Mopsa the Fairy, 138.

 Moral Pirates, The, 38.

 More Bunny Stories, 91.

 More Goops, and How Not to be Them, 91.

 More Mother Stories, 91.

 Mother Goose, 91.

 Mother Goose Village, 92.

 Mother Goose’s Rhymes and Melodies, 92.

 Mother Stories, 92.

 Mountain-Land, 102.

 Mozart, 179.

 Muffin Shop, The, 92.

 My Father’s Business, 168.

 Myths and Legends of the Pacific Northwest, 138.


 Nathalie’s Chum, 30.

 Nathalie’s Sister, 30.

 Narrative Bible, The, 168.

 Natural History, 164.

 Nature Study and Life, 151.

 Nelly’s Silver Mine, 19.

 Never Old Stories, 168.

 New Baby World, The, 92.

 New Boy, The, 50.

 New Chronicles of Rebecca, 27.

 New Line Upon Line, The, 168.

 New Peep of Day, The, 168.

 New Treasure Seekers, The, 108.

 New-Year’s Bargain, A, 4.

 Nibelungs, The, 179.

 Nicholas Nickleby, 69.

 Nights With Uncle Remus, 108.

 Nonsense Books, 173.

 Norse Fairy Tales, 138.

 Norse Stories, 180.

 Northland Heroes, 181.

 Nursery Rhyme Book, The, 173.


 Oak-Tree Fairy Book, The, 138.

 Odyssey for Boys and Girls, The, 139.

 Oh! Christina!, 27.

 Old Curiosity Shop, The, 122.

 Old-Fashioned Girl, An, 19.

 Old Indian Legends, 139.

 Old Mother West Wind, 93.

 Old, Old Story Book, An, 169.

 Old Rough the Miser, 103.

 Old Stories of the East, 169.

 Old Testament Stories, 169.

 Old Times in the Colonies, 122.

 Olive Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Oliver Twist, 69.

 On General Thomas’ Staff, 56.

 Only Child, An, 4.

 On the School Team, 50.

 On the Trail of Washington, 69.

 Optimism, 122.

 Orange Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Orchard-Land, 93.

 Orcutt Girls, The, 19.

 Oregon Trail, The, 69.

 Other Girls, The, 27.

 Other Sylvia, The, 4.

 Our Common Birds and How to Know Them, 151.

 Outdoor Handy Book, for Playground, Field, and Forest, 162.

 Outdoor-Land, 93.

 Owls of St, Ursula’s, The, 19.

 “Oz” Books, The, 103, 104.

 Ozma of Oz, 103.


 Pacific Coast Series, The, 50.

 Painted Desert, The, 50.

 Parables from Nature, 123.

 Pathfinder, The, 67.

 Patricia, 10.

 Paul and Virginia, 123.

 Peggy Owen, 20.

 Peggy Owen, Patriot, 20.

 Pepper and Salt, 139.

 Personally Conducted, 123.

 Persons and Places, 164.

 Peterkin Papers, 123.

 Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens, 139.

 Peter Pan Picture Book, The, 93.

 Peter Rabbit Series, The, 93, 94.

 Phebe: Her Profession, 29.

 Philippa at Halcyon, 27.

 Photography for Young People, 162.

 Picciola, 80.

 Pickett’s Gap, 69.

 Pictures and Rhymes, 108.

 Pilgrim’s Progress, The, 123.

 Pinkey Perkins, Just a Boy, 51.

 Pink Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Pinocchio, 33.

 Pioneers, The, 67.

 Pioneers of the Mississippi Valley, 181.

 Pioneers of the Rocky Mountains and the West, 181.

 Pioneers on Land and Sea, 181.

 Plebe at West Point, A, 74.

 Plutarch, Boys’ and Girls’, The, 123.

 Plutarch’s Lives, 124.

 Poems Children Love, 173.

 Poems of Childhood, 173.

 Polly and Dolly, 104.

 Polly Cologne, 4.

 Polly Page Ranch Club, The, 27.

 Polly Page Yacht Club, The, 28.

 Popular Tales from the Norse, 139.

 Posy Ring, 174.

 Prairie, The, 68.

 Prairie Rose, A, 28.

 Pretty Polly Perkins, 20.

 Prince and his Ants, The, 152.

 Prince and Page, 51.

 Prince and the Pauper, The, 51.

 Prince Eugene, the Noble Knight, 179.

 Prince Lazybones, and Other Stories, 33.

 Prince Silverwings, and other Fairy Tales, 139.

 Prince of India, The, 124.

 Princess and Curdie, The, 140.

 Princess and the Goblin, The, 140.

 Princess Idleways, 4.

 Prodigious Hickey, The, 70.

 Proverb Stories, 21.

 Puck of Pook’s Hill, 124.


 Queen Maria Sophia of Naples, a Forgotten Heroine, 179.

 Queen’s Museum, and other Fanciful Tales, 109.

 Quentin Durward, 80.


 Rab and his Friends, 124.

 Racketty-Packetty House, The, 95.

 Raftmates, 49.

 Raiding with Morgan, 56.

 Railway that Glue Built, The, 100

 Rainy Day Scrap Book, The, 109.

 Range and Trail, 70.

 Real Folks, 28.

 Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm, 20.

 Recollections of a Drummer-Boy, The, 70.

 Redeeming the Republic, 124.

 Red Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Red Folk and Wild Folk, 95.

 Red Fox, 151.

 Red Mustang, The, 51.

 Reform of Shaun, The, 38.

 Revolutionary Maid, A, 28.

 Rewards and Fairies, 125.

 Rhymes and Jingles, 174.

 Rhyming Ring, The, 95.

 Rick Dale, 50.

 Riflemen of the Ohio, The, 70.

 Rip Van Winkle, 125.

 Rival Heirs, The, 61.

 Road to Oz, The, 104.

 Robbery Under Arms, 70.

 Robin Hood: His Book, 38.

 Robin Hood, Merry Adventures of, 51.

 Robinson Crusoe, 51.

 Rob Roy, 81.

 Roggie and Reggie Stories, The, 95.

 Rolf in the Woods, 52.

 Rollo at Play, 33.

 Rollo at Work, 33.

 Rose in Bloom, 125.

 Rout of the Foreigner, The, 52.

 Rules of the Game, 81.

 Russian Grandmother’s Wonder Tales, 140.


 Sailing Alone Around the World, 71.

 St. Batholomew’s Eve, 53.

 St. Nicholas Magazine, 125.

 Saints in Story, The, 169.

 Sandman: His Farm Stories, 95.

 Sandman: More Farm Stories, 95.

 Santa Claus on a Lark, 104.

 Santa Claus’ Partner, 125.

 Sara Crewe; Little Saint Elizabeth and Other Stories, 10.

 Saturday Mornings, 10.

 School of the Woods, The, 152.

 School Team in Camp, The, 52.

 Scientific American Boy, The, 162.

 Scientific American Boy at School, The, 162.

 Scotland’s Story, 125.

 Scottie and his Lady, 126.

 Scottish Chiefs, 126.

 Scottish Fairy Book, The, 140.

 Second Book of Birds, The, 152.

 Second Jungle Book, The, 109.

 Senior Quarter-Back, A, 71.

 Seven Little Sisters Who Live on the Round Ball that Floats in the Air,
    181.

 Shaggycoat, 152.

 Sharp Eyes, 152.

 Ships that Glue Built, The, 101.

 Short-Stop, The, 71.

 Short Stories for Short People, 105.

 “Sidney” Books, The, 28, 29.

 Signal Boys, The, 53.

 Silas Marner, 81.

 Silver Pitchers, 21.

 Sing-Song, 174.

 Sir Marrok, 119.

 Sister’s Vocation, and Other Stories, 29.

 “Six Girls” Series, The, 20, 21.

 Sleepy-Time Stories, 96.

 Slowcoach, The, 109.

 Snow Baby, The, 96.

 Snowland Folk, 96.

 Snowshoes and Sledges, 50.

 Son of Light-Horse Harry, The, 71.

 Song of Life, A, 153.

 Sophomore Half-Back, A, 72.

 Sparrow the Tramp, 105.

 “Spinning-Wheel” Series, The, 21.

 Squirrel Nutkin, Tale of, 94.

 Squirrels and other Fur-Bearers, 153.

 Star Fairies, and other Fairy Tales, 141.

 Star People, 140.

 Stephen, 53.

 Stories for Boys, 72.

 Stories from the Chronicle of the Cid, 110.

 Stories from the Crusades, 38.

 Stories from the Life of Christ, 169.

 Stories from the Norseland, 141.

 Stories from the Old Testament, 170.

 Stories of the Gorilla Country, 53.

 Stories of Great Americans for Little Americans, 182.

 Stories of Indian Children, 182.

 Stories of King Arthur’s Knights, 120.

 Stories of Old Greece, 182.

 Stories of Persian Heroes, 141.

 Stories of Starland, 182.

 Stories that Glue Told, The, 101.

 Stories Told at Twilight, 99.

 Stories to Tell to Children, 96.

 Story of Aaron, The, 105.

 Story of a Bad Boy, 53.

 Story of Great Inventions, The, 163.

 Story Hour, The, 96.

 Story of King Arthur and his Knights, 120.

 Story of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table, 119.

 Story of Little Black Sambo, The, 96.

 Story of Little Jane and Me, 5.

 Story of Marco Polo, The, 126.

 Story of Music and Musicians, 126.

 Story of Rustem, 141.

 Story of Sir Galahad, The, 120.

 Story of Sir Launcelot and his Companions, The, 120.

 Story of Tonty, The, 127.

 Story of Viteau, The, 53.

 Story of the Æneid, 141.

 Story of the Bible, The, 170.

 Story of the Champions of the Round Table, The, 120.

 Story of the Chosen People, 182.

 Story of the Gospel, The, 170.

 Story of the Grail, The, 120.

 Story of the Greeks, The, 182.

 Story of the Iliad, 141.

 Story of the Indians of New England, 183.

 Story of the Middle Ages, 183.

 Story of the Odyssey, The, 142.

 Story of the Other Wise Man, 126.

 Story of the Revolution, 81.

 Story of the Rhinegold, 142.

 Sue Orcutt, 21.

 Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite’s Life, 29.

 Sunbonnet Babies’ Book, 97.

 Sweet William, 110.

 Swiss Family Robinson, 110.

 Swiss Heroes, The, 179.


 Tailor of Gloucester, The, 94.

 Tale of Two Cities, A, 127.

 Tales Come True, and Tales Made True, 97.

 Tales from the Alhambra, 127.

 Tales from the Fjeld, 142.

 Tales from Shakespeare, 127.

 Tales of Ancient Greece, 142.

 Tales of King Arthur, 119.

 Tales of the Enchanted Islands of the Pacific, 142.

 Talisman, The, 72.

 “Teddy Books,” The, 29, 30.

 Telling Bible Stories, 170.

 Ten Boys from History, 39.

 Ten Boys Who Lived on the Road from Long Ago to Now, 183.

 Tennessee Shad, The, 72.

 Tenting on the Plains, 81.

 That Freshman, 30.

 Their Canoe Trip, 107.

 There She Blows!, 81.

 Things a Boy Should Know About Electricity, 163.

 Things Will Take a Turn, 5.

 Things Worth Doing and How to do Them, 163.

 Three Blind Mice, Ye, 97.

 Three Colonial Boys, 53.

 Three Good Giants, 143.

 Three Gringoes in Venezuela and Central America, 81.

 Three Little Daughters of the Revolution, 21.

 Three Young Continentals, 54.

 Through the Farmyard Gate, 97.

 Through the Looking-Glass, 5.

 Toby Tyler, or Ten Weeks with a Circus, 39.

 Tom Brown at Oxford, 72.

 Tom Brown’s School Days, 54.

 Tom, Dick, and Harriet, 44.

 Tom Kitten, Tale of, 94.

 Tommy Trot’s Visit to Santa Claus, 34.

 Trail of the Sandhill Stag, The, 153.

 Treasure Island, 73.

 Treasure Seekers, The, 110.

 Tree-Dwellers, The, 183.

 Truths—Talks with a Boy Concerning Himself, 73.

 Two Arrows, 39.

 Two Bad Mice, Tale of, 94.

 Two Boys in the Tropics, 54.

 Two College Girls, 30.

 Two Little Confederates, 39.

 Two Little Savages, 39.

 Two Maryland Girls, 30.

 Two Wyoming Girls, 30.

 Two Years Before the Mast, 82.

 Two Years in the Jungle, 153.

 Two Young Patriots, 54.

 Typee, 82.


 Uncle Remus and His Friends, 110.

 Uncle Remus: His Songs and his Sayings, 111.

 Under the Lilacs, 127.

 Under the Window, 97.

 Undine, 128.

 Undine (Life Stories for Young People), 180.

 “United States Midshipman” Series, The, 73, 74.

 Unknown to History, 128.

 Ursula’s Freshman, 30.

 “Us” and the Rectory Children, 11.


 Vagabond Journey Around the World, A, 82.

 Varmint, The, 74.

 Vicar of Wakefield, The, 128.

 Viking Tales (R. B. Anderson), 143.

 Viking Tales (Jennie Hall), 183.

 Violet Fairy Book, The, 136.


 Wagner’s Heroes, 143.

 Wagner’s Heroines, 144.

 Wagner Opera Stories, 143.

 Wagner Story Book, The, 143.

 War of Independence, The, 128.

 Washington’s Young Aids, 54.

 Watchers of the Trails, The, 153.

 Water Babies, The, 144.

 Ways of Wood Folk, The, 154.

 We Girls, 31.

 Wee Winkles and Snowball, 5.

 Wee Winkles and Wideawake, 5.

 Welsh Fairy Book, The, 144.

 “West Point” Series, The, 74, 75.

 West Point Yearling, A, 74.

 Westward Ho!, 82.

 What a Girl Can Make and Do, 163.

 What Katy Did, 11.

 What Katy Did at School, 11.

 What Katy Did Next, 21.

 What Mr. Darwin Saw, 154.

 When a Cobbler Ruled a King, 75.

 When Molly Was Six, 97.

 When Sarah Saved the Day, 11.

 When Sarah Went to School, 11.

 When the King Came, 170.

 White Company, The, 75.

 Why the Chimes Rang, and other Stories, 105.

 “Wide Awake Girls” Series, 31.

 Widow O’Callaghan’s Boys, The, 55.

 Wild Animals I Have Known, 154.

 Wilderness Babies, 105.

 William Henry and his Friends, 40.

 William Henry Letters, The, 40.

 William Tell, 180.

 William of Orange, 180.

 Wings and Stings, 154.

 Winning his Way to West Point, 74.

 Winning his “Y.”, 55.

 Wireless Station at Silver Fox Farm, The, 75.

 With Clive in India, 55.

 With Crockett and Bowie, 55.

 With Sully into the Sioux Land, 76.

 Wizard of Oz, The, 103.

 Wolf Hunters, The, 76.

 Wolf the Storm Leader, 83.

 Won by the Sword, 55.

 Wonder Book and Tanglewood Tales, 144.

 Wonder Book of the Atmosphere, 163.

 Wonder Book of Old Romance, 144.

 Wonder Book of Volcanoes and Earthquakes, The, 164.

 Wonder Clock, The, 145.

 Wonder Tales from Wagner, 145.

 Wonderful Adventures of Nils, 145.

 World of the Great Forest, 154.

 “World’s Best” Series, The, 128, 129.

 Wouldbegoods, The, 111.


 Year in a Yawl, A, 76.

 Yellow Fairy Book, The, 136.

 Young Carthaginian, The, 55.

 Young Continentals at Bunker Hill, The, 56.

 Young Continentals at Lexington, 56.

 Young Forester, The, 76.

 Young Folks’ Cyclopædias, 164.

 “Young Kentuckians” Series, The, 56.

 Young Lucretia, and Other Stories, 22.

 Young Pitcher, The, 77.

 Young Railroaders, The, 77.

 Youngest Girl in the School, The, 12.

 Youth of the Great Elector, 180.


 Zachary Phips, 83.

 Zenobia, 129.




                           _Index to Authors_


 Aanrud, Hans, 108.

 Abbott, Jacob, 33.

 Adams, Joseph H., 159, 160.

 Æsop, 98.

 Alcott, Louisa M., 19, 21, 102, 116, 119, 121, 125, 127.

 Alden, Raymond Macdonald, 105.

 Alden, William L., 35, 36, 37, 38.

 Aldrich, Thomas Bailey, 53.

 Altsheler, Joseph A., 63, 64, 70.

 Amicis, Edmondo de, 36.

 Andersen, Hans Christian, 130.

 Anderson, Rasmus Björn, 143.

 Andrews, Jane, 177, 181, 183.

 Aspinwall, Alicia, 102, 105.

 Atkinson, Philip, 158.


 Bacon, Josephine Daskam, 29.

 Bailey, Temple, 17.

 Bailey, C. S. and Brown, C. H., 88, 89.

 Baker, Etta A., 25, 26.

 Baker, Ray Stannard, 156, 158.

 Baldwin, James, 134, 135, 169, 176, 177.

 Ballard, Julia P., 147.

 Ballard, Susan, 132.

 Banks, Helen Ward, 35.

 Bannerman, Helen, 96.

 Barber, Grace E., 143.

 Barbour, Ralph Henry, 44, 45, 46, 47, 55, 58, 60.

 Barnes, Annie M., 18.

 Barnes, James, 68, 71.

 Barrie, J. M., 139.

 Baum, L. Frank, 88, 103, 104.

 Bay, J. Christian, 132.

 Baylor, Frances C., 107.

 Beach, E. L., 57.

 Beale, Harriet S., 170.

 Beard, Dan C., 155, 156, 159, 161, 162.

 Beard, Lina and Adelia B., 155, 161, 163.

 Bell, J. J., 27.

 Bell, Lettice, 167, 168.

 Bennett, John, 41, 49.

 Benton, Caroline F., 10.

 Bigham, Madge L., 92.

 Black, William, 36.

 Blackmore, R. D., 122.

 Blaisdell, Etta A., and Mary Frances, 85.

 Blaisdell, Mary Frances, 104.

 Blanchan, Neltje, 148.

 Bland, Mrs., _See_ E. Nesbit.

 Blanchard, Amy E., 14, 24, 26, 28, 30.

 Blatchford, Mary E., 5.

 Boldrewood, Rolf, 70.

 Bolton, Sarah K., 15.

 Bond, Alexander R., 162.

 Booth, Maud Ballington, 96.

 Bouvet, Marguerite, 110.

 Boyesen, Hjalmar H., 42.

 Brassey, Lady Anna, 112.

 Brereton, F. S., 64.

 Bridgman, L. J., 89.

 Brigham, Louise, 155.

 Bronson, Edgar Beecher, 150.

 Brooke, L. Leslie, 89, 90.

 Brooks, Edward, 119, 141, 142.

 Brooks, Elbridge S., 42, 48, 113.

 Brooks, Noah, 63, 112, 126.

 Brown, Abbie Farwell, 37, 106.

 Brown, Helen Dawes, 30.

 Brown, John, 124.

 Brown, Katharine Holland, 27.

 Browne, Frances, 133.

 Browne, Francis F., 173.

 Browning, Robert, 176.

 Bryant, Sara Cone, 96.

 Buckley, Arabella B., 149.

 Bulfinch, Thomas, 119, 130, 137.

 Bullen, Frank T., 62.

 Bunyan, John, 123.

 Bulwer-Lytton, 117, 121.

 Burgess, Frank Gelett, 89, 91.

 Burgess, Thornton W., 93.

 Burnett, Frances Hodgson, 7, 8, 10, 95, 108.

 Burns, Elmer E., 163.

 Burroughs, John, 148, 153.

 Burton, Alma H., 183.

 Burton, C. P., 35, 36.

 Bush, Bertha E., 28.

 Butterworth, Hezekiah, 33.

 Bynner, Edwin L., 83.


 Caldecott, Randolph, 86.

 Caldwell, Frank, 83.

 Calhoun, Frances Boyd, 122.

 Canavan, Michael J., 42.

 Canfield, Flavia A., 47.

 Carpenter, Edmund J., 138.

 Carroll, Lewis (C. L. Dodgson), 1, 5.

 Carruth, Frances Weston, 24.

 Carryl, Charles E., 98, 100.

 Cary, Alice and Phœbe, 171.

 Catherwood, Mary Hartwell, 127, 178.

 Catrevas, Christina, 30.

 Cervantes, Miguel de, 115.

 Chambers, Robert W., 93, 102.

 Champlin, John D., 164.

 Chance, Lulu Maude, 180.

 Chapin, Anna A., 142, 145.

 Chapman, Frank M., 147.

 Chase, Annie, 176.

 Chase, Jessie Anderson, 10.

 Chisholm, Loney, 172.

 Church, A. J., 118, 130, 134, 135, 139.

 Clark, Edward B., 85.

 Clemens, Samuel L., _See_ Mark Twain.

 Clough, A. H., 124.

 Coates, Henry T., 171.

 Cody, Sherwin, 128.

 Coffin, Charles Carleton, 113, 116, 122, 124.

 Cohen, Emily S., 166.

 Collins, Francis A., 157.

 Collodi, C., 33.

 Comstock, Harriet T., 4.

 Coolidge, Susan, 4, 7, 11, 13, 16, 18, 21.

 Coombs, F. Lovell, 77.

 Connolly, James B., 66.

 Connor, Ralph, 64, 78.

 Cooper, James Fenimore, 67.

 Copeland, Walter, 84.

 Coussens, Penrhyn W., 131, 173.

 Cox, George W., 142.

 Cox, John H., 136.

 Cragin, Harry, 158.

 Cragin, Laura E., 167, 169.

 Craik, D. M., _See_ Miss Mulock.

 Crake, A. D., 61.

 Crane, Walter, 87.

 Curtis, Alice Turner, 2, 6, 8.

 Curwood, James Oliver, 76.

 Custer, Elizabeth Bacon, 59, 81.


 Dana, Richard Henry, Jr., 82.

 Darton, F. J. H., 144.

 Darwin, Charles R., 154.

 Dasent, George Webbe, 138, 139, 142.

 Daulton, Agnes McClelland, 25, 154.

 Davidson, Edith B., 85, 86.

 Davis, Richard Harding, 72, 81.

 Dawson, A. J., 63.

 Day, Holman Francis, 63.

 Defoe, Daniel, 51.

 Delacombe, H., 156.

 Deland, Ellen Douglas, 26.

 Deming, E. W., 90, 95.

 Dewey, Katharine Fay, 140.

 Diaz, A. M., 4, 40.

 Dickens, Charles, 69, 114, 115, 122, 127.

 Dimock, A. W., 62.

 Dix, Beulah Marie, 19, 65.

 Dixon, Clarissa, 8.

 Dodge, Mary Mapes, 27, 84, 92, 117, 174.

 Dodgson, C. L., See Lewis Carroll.

 Dopp, Katharine E., 177, 180, 183.

 Doubleday, Russell, 61, 76.

 Doyle, A. Conan, 75, 80.

 Drummond, Henry, 108.

 Drysdale, William, 42.

 Du Bois, Mary Constance, 17.

 Du Chaillu, Paul B., 48, 53, 67, 80, 154.

 Dunn, Byron A., 56.


 Earl, John Prescott, 43, 50, 52.

 Eastman, Charles A., 46.

 Edmison, John P., 141.

 Eggleston, Edward, 46, 182.

 Eggleston, George Cary, 42, 44, 53.

 Eliot, George, 81.

 Elliott, Emelia, 10.

 Ellis, Ruth K., 31.

 Ewing, Juliana Horatia, 37.


 Faraday, Michael, 158.

 Farrar, James M., 167.

 Farrington, M. V., 119.

 Ferris, Richard, 160.

 Field, Eugene, 173.

 Figyelmessy, Eliza H., 54.

 Finnemore, John, 48.

 Firth, Emma M., 182.

 Fiske, John, 128.

 Forbes, Cora Bell, 14.

 Ford, Sewell, 79.

 Forrester, Izola L., 27, 28.

 Foster, Charles, 165, 166, 170.

 Foster, Mary H. and Cummings, Mabel H., 175.

 Fox, Alice Wilson, 26.

 Francillon, R. E., 178.

 Franck, Harry A., 82.

 Freeman, C. M. (Mary E. Wilkins), 22.

 French, Allen, 38, 119, 134.

 Frost, W, H., 119, 120, 143.

 Fuller, Caroline M., 23.


 Gale, Agnes Cook, 175.

 Garland, Hamlin, 59, 68.

 Garnett, Louise Ayres, 92, 95.

 Gates, Eleanor, 23.

 Gatty, Mrs. Alfred, 123.

 Gellibrand, Emma, 32.

 Gibson, William Hamilton, 149, 152.

 Gilliat, Edward, 65.

 Gillmore, Inez H., 9.

 Gladden, Washington, 104.

 Godfrey, Hollis, 46.

 Goldsmith, Oliver, 128.

 Gould, Elizabeth Lincoln, 7.

 Gould, F. J., 100.

 Grant, John B., 151.

 Greenaway, Kate, 84, 88, 91, 97.

 Greene, F. N., 120.

 Greene, Homer, 69, 176.

 Grenfell, Wilfred T., 79.

 Grey, Zane, 71, 76, 77.

 Grierson, Elizabeth W., 140.

 Grinnell, George Bird, 65.

 Grover, Eulalie Osgood, 97.

 Guerber, Hélène A., 137, 182.


 Habberton, John, 118.

 Haines, Alice Calhoun, 13, 19, 90.

 Hale, Edward Everett, 68.

 Hale, Lucretia P., 121, 123.

 Hall, A. N., 156.

 Hall, Jennie, 177, 183.

 Hammond, Harold, 46, 51.

 Hanson, Joseph Mills, 76.

 Harding, Samuel B., 183.

 Harding, Caroline H. and Samuel B., 176.

 Hare, T. Truxton, 67, 68, 71, 72.

 Harraden, Beatrice, 3, 5.

 Harris, Joel Chandler, 102, 105, 108, 110.

 Harrison, Edith Ogden, 139, 141.

 Harrison, Elizabeth, 89.

 Hauff’s Fairy Tales, 134.

 Haviland, M. D., 151.

 Hawkes, Clarence, 32, 148, 150, 152.

 Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 117, 144.

 Hays, Helen, 4, 33.

 Hays, Margaret G., 90.

 Hazard, Blanch E. and Dutton, Samuel T., 178.

 Headland, Isaac T., 87, 100.

 Henley, William E., 172.

 Henty, G. A., 47, 53, 55.

 Herbertson, Agnes Grozier, 118.

 Higgins, Aileen C., 9.

 Higginson, Thomas Wentworth, 142.

 Hill, Frederick Trevor, 69.

 Hodges, Clifton F., 151.

 Hodges, George, 167, 170.

 Holbrook, Florence, 175, 178, 181.

 Holland, Josiah G., 78.

 Holland, Rupert S., 16, 160.

 Holton, Susan, 91.

 Hopkins, William J., 95.

 Hornaday, William T., 146, 153.

 Houghton, Louise Seymour, 140, 170.

 Houston, Edwin James, 156, 163, 164.

 Howden, J. R., 157.

 Howells, William Dean, 1, 43, 45, 100.

 Hoxie, Jane L., 90.

 Hughes, Rupert, 47.

 Hughes, Thomas, 54, 72.

 Hull, Eleanor, 131.

 Husted, Mary H., 182.


 Ide, C. W., _See_ Ruth Ogden.

 Ingelow, Jean, 138.

 Irving, Washington, 87, 112, 121, 125, 127.

 Iverney, John W., 97.


 Jackson, Gabrielle E., 5, 20, 24.

 Jackson, Helen Hunt, 19, 99.

 Jacobs, Joseph, 98, 131, 132, 135.

 Janvier, Thomas A., 78, 79.

 Jefferson, Charles E., 168.

 Jenks, Albert E., 175.

 Jenks, Tudor, 162.

 Jewett, John Howard. (Hannah Howard), 86, 91.

 Jewett, Sarah Orne, 13.

 Johnson, Clifton, 131, 132, 138, 168.

 Johnson, Owen, 70, 72, 74.

 Johnston, Annie Fellows, 17, 18.

 Judson, Katherine B., 138, 178.


 Kaler, James Otis, _See_ James Otis.

 Keller, Helen, 122.

 Kelley, Jay G., 156.

 Kelman, Janet H., 38, 169.

 Kenyon, Walter J., 159.

 Kieffer, Henry M., 70.

 Kilbon, George B., 158.

 King, Charles, 60, 78.

 Kingsley, Charles, 79, 82, 133, 144, 180.

 Kipling, Rudyard, 60, 80, 102, 107, 109, 124, 125.

 Kirkland, Winifred, 16.


 Laboulaye, Edouard, 133, 136.

 Lagerlöf, Selma, 145, 166.

 Lamb, Charles and Mary, 127.

 La Motte Fouqué, 128.

 Lang, Andrew, 120, 136, 173.

 Lanier, Sidney, 43, 120.

 Lathrop, Henry B., 120.

 Lear, Edward, 173.

 Lillie, Lucy C., 126.

 Lindsay, Maud, 91, 92.

 Lodge, Henry Cabot, 81.

 Long, William J., 147, 152, 154.

 Lowry, E. B., 24, 73.

 Lucas, Edward V., 109, 171.


 Mabie, Hamilton Wright, 180.

 Macdonald, George, 130, 137, 140.

 Macé, Jean, 134.

 Macgregor, M., 120.

 Macleod, Mary, 120.

 Macy, S. B., 166, 167.

 Madden, Eva A., 53.

 Madeira, Percy C., 150.

 Madison, Lucy Foster, 20.

 Major, Charles, 42, 68.

 Malone, Paul B., 74.

 Mann, Millicent E., 9.

 Marshall, Carrie L., 30.

 Marshall, H. E., 114, 116, 119, 125.

 Marshall, Logan, 133.

 Martineau, Harriet, 44, 45, 116.

 Masefield, John, 48.

 Maud, Constance E., 143, 144.

 McIntyre, John T., 56.

 McMurray, Charles A., 181.

 McMurray, Lida B., 176.

 McNeil, Everett, 63, 65.

 Melville, Herman, 82.

 Menefee, Maud. (Mrs. E. L. Bradley), 176.

 Miller, Olive Thorne, 149, 151, 152.

 Miller, Roman J., 58.

 Mitton, Edith G., 158.

 Molesworth, Mary L., 6, 11.

 Montgomery, Lucy M., 23.

 Monvel, Boutet de, 136.

 Moore, Charles W., 106.

 Morley, Margaret W., 106, 147, 153.

 Morse, Margaret, 126.

 Mortimer, M., 168.

 Moulton, Louise Chandler, 98.

 Moulton, Richard G., 165.

 Mulock, Miss (D. M. Craik), 32, 98, 119.

 Munroe, Kirk, 49, 50, 55.


 Nansen, Fridtjof, 79.

 Nesbit, E. (Mrs. Bland), 37, 108, 110.

 Newell, Peter, 108.

 Nicolay, Helen, 43.

 Nicolay, John G., 112.


 O’Connor, Daniel, 93.

 Ogden, Ruth. (Mrs. C. W. Ide), 3, 33.

 Otis, James, 37, 39, 75.

 Overton, Gwendolen, 23.


 Page, Thomas Nelson, 34, 35, 39, 125.

 Paine, Albert Bigelow, 32, 101.

 Paine, Ralph D., 64.

 Palgrave, Francis Turner, 172.

 Paret, Anna Parmly, 159.

 Parkman, Francis, 69.

 Parsons, Frances Theodora, 146, 150.

 Patten, Gilbert, 44.

 Peary, Josephine D., 96.

 Peary, Robert E., 96.

 Peers, C. R., 169.

 Perry, Nora, 21.

 Pier, Arthur Stanwood, 46, 50.

 Pierson, Clara D., 146, 147.

 Plummer, Mary W., 110.

 Plutarch, 123, 124.

 Plympton, A. G., 7.

 Poe, Edgar Allan, 129.

 Pope, Jessie, 84.

 Porter, Jane, 126.

 Potter, Beatrix, 93, 94.

 Poulsson, Emilie, 88, 89, 97.

 Proctor, Mary, 182.

 Putnam, M. Louise, 114.

 Pyle, Howard, 49, 51, 66, 120, 139, 145.


 Rabelais, François, 143.

 Ramée, Louise de la. (“Ouida”), 106.

 Rankin, Carroll W., 14, 15.

 Ray, Anna Chapin, 28, 29.

 Reid, Jane Brewster, 19.

 Remick, Grace M., 15.

 Renninger, Elizabeth D., 141.

 Repplier, Agnes, 171.

 Rhoades, Nina, 3, 4.

 Rice, Alice Hegan, 32.

 Richards, Laura E., 6, 88, 101.

 Roberts, Charles G. D., 149, 150, 151, 153.

 Roberts, G. E. Theodore, 62.

 Rolt-Wheeler, Francis, 59, 60.

 Roosevelt, Theodore, 146.

 Rossetti, Christina G., 174.

 Ruskin, John, 135.


 Sabin, Edwin L., 58, 70.

 Sage, Agnes C., 8.

 Saint-Pierre, Jacques Henri B. de, 123.

 Sanford, Frank G., 155.

 Santaine, Joseph Xavier B., 80.

 Saunders, Marshall, 98.

 Sayler, H. C., 41.

 Schwartz, Julia A., 25, 105.

 Scott, Broughton, 113.

 Scott, Walter, 65, 72, 80, 81.

 Scudder, Horace E., 99, 116.

 Seaman, Augusta H., 16, 75.

 Seawell, Molly Elliot, 45.

 Senior, Dorothy, 120.

 Seton, Ernest Thompson, 39, 52, 147, 151, 153, 154.

 Sewell, Anna, 99.

 Sharp, Evelyn, 12, 99.

 Shaw, Edward R., 177.

 Shaw, Flora Louise, 113.

 Shuman, E. L. and E. T., 109.

 Singmaster, Elsie, 11.

 Slocum, Joshua, 71.

 Smith, E. Boyd, 88.

 Smith, Gertrude, 84, 91, 95.

 Smith, Nora Archibald, 98.

 Smith, Mary P. Wells, 107.

 Sparhawk, Frances C., 24, 25.

 Spyri, Johanna, 15, 38.

 St. John, Thomas M., 161, 163.

 St. Nicholas Magazine, 125.

 Starr, Frederick, 175.

 Steedman, Amy, 121, 137, 167.

 Sterling, M. B., 120.

 Stevenson, Burton E., 172.

 Stevenson, Robert Louis, 59, 73, 172.

 Stirling, Yates, Jr., 73.

 Stockton, Frank R., 53, 109, 123, 131.

 Stoddard, William O., 39, 51.

 Sweetser, Kate D., 39.

 Swett, Sophie, 13.

 Swift, Jonathan, 117.


 Taggart, Marion Ames, 20.

 Tappan, Eva March, 38, 133, 166, 169.

 Thomas, M. M., 60.

 Thomas, W. Jenkyn, 144.

 Thurston, I. T., 58.

 Tomlinson, Everett T., 47, 53, 54.

 Twain, Mark, 51, 57, 65.


 Upton, George P., 179.


 Vaile, Charlotte M., 19, 21.

 Valentine, L., 131.

 “Vamba”, 152.

 Van Dyke, Henry, 126.


 Walker, Margaret Coulson, 97, 162.

 Wallace, Dillon, 80.

 Wallace, Lew, 112, 124.

 Waller, Mary E., 48.

 Ware, William, 129.

 Waterman, Nixon, 26, 59.

 Weedon, L. L., 134, 165.

 Wesselhoeft, Lily F., 100, 103, 105.

 Wheeler, James Cooper, 81.

 White, Eliza Orne, 3, 4, 6, 97.

 White, J. S., 118, 123.

 White, Stewart Edward, 81.

 Whitney, Mrs. A. D. T., 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31.

 Whitney, Helen Hay, 85.

 Whittier, John G., 171.

 Wiggin, Kate Douglas, 20, 27, 106.

 Wiggin, Kate Douglas and Smith, Nora Archibald, 96, 172, 174.

 Williams, Archibald, 160, 161.

 Williams, George A. and Clara A., 100.

 Williams, J. E. Hodder, 168.

 Williston, Teresa P., 135.

 Wilmot-Buxton, E. M., 141.

 Wood, Ethel, 1.

 Woodward, Alice B., 93.

 Woolsey, Sarah C. _See_ Susan Coolidge.

 Wright, William H., 148.

 Wyss, Johann Rudolph, 110.


 Yonge, Charlotte M., 51, 114, 115, 118, 128.

 Young, Egerton R., 64.


 Zitkala-Sa, 139.

 Zollinger, Gulielma, 52, 55.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 Page         Changed from                      Changed to

  158, 189 Chemistry of a Candle    The Chemical History of a Candle

 ● Typos fixed; non-standard spelling and dialect retained.
 ● Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74556 ***
